A Faster Way to Message on Mobile
by Lucy Zhang on Wednesday, October 19, 2011 at 1:31pm

UPDATE on Wednesday, October 19, 2011: We're excited to announce an update to Facebook Messenger. In this version, we've included a bunch of new features and performance improvements designed to make your messaging experience even better.

 

Now you can see who's online and who's on mobile, and know when the other person is typing. It's also easier to send messages to the people you message most.

 

With this update, the app is now available for BlackBerry in addition to iPhone (including iOS 5) and Android. We've also added support for 22 new languages for Android, and 12 new languages for iPhone.

Messenger for BlackBerry

 

 If you haven't tried Messenger yet, you can get the app today or watch this video to see Messenger in action:

  

   

    

    Originally Published on Tuesday, August 9, 2011:

     More and more of us rely on our phones to send and receive messages. But it isn't always easy to know the best way to reach someone on their phone. Should you send an email or text? Which will they check first? Did they even get your last message?

      

      We think messaging should be easier than that. You should be able to write a message, click "Send" and know that you will reach the person right away.

       

       So today, we're introducing Messenger, a new mobile app that simplifies how messaging works, and gives you a faster way to message friends and small groups.

        

        A whole new app

         

         Messenger is a separate app, so it only takes one click to get to your messages or send a new one. Messages are delivered through notifications and texts, so your friends are more likely to get them right away.

          

          You can use Messenger to reach all of your friends -- whether they're on Facebook or in your phone contacts. All you have to do is type the person's name.

          The Messenger app is an extension of Facebook messages, so all your conversations are in one place, including your texts, chats, emails and messages. Whether you're on your phone or on the web, you can see the full history of all your messages.

           

           Make plans with groups

            

            When you're on the go, coordinating a bunch of people can be tricky, especially if plans change at the last minute. With Messenger, you can quickly start a group conversation and message everyone at once.

             

             If you choose to add your location, the people you're messaging with can easily find each other on the map. You can also attach photos, so everyone else can see and comment on what you're looking at.

             How to get Messenger

              

              Messenger will be available for both iPhone and Android starting today. Just search for "Facebook Messenger" in your phone's app store, or get a link to the app texted to your phone.


