July 24, 2012, 9:39 am
Assessing the Trade-Offs Between Security and Civil Liberties
By SCOTT SHANE
After the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, many people were prepared to give up a little privacy so long as the counterterrorism bureaucracy promised them protection.Stan Honda/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesAfter the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, many people were prepared to give up a little privacy as long as the counterterrorism bureaucracy promised them protection.

When Al Qaeda struck a decade ago, among its incorporeal victims was Americans’ inbred wariness of the power of the government to snoop into their private lives. Shocked to watch nearly 3,000 die in a single, sprawling plot, many people were prepared to give up a little privacy and liberty so long as the counterterrorism bureaucracy promised them protection from a ruthless enemy.


There were the expanded powers granted to the F.B.I. and other agencies by the USA Patriot Act; the first warrantless eavesdropping on American soil since the 1970s by the National Security Agency; proliferating watch lists that tripped up many innocent travelers, including thousands of Muslim Americans; sting operations involving undercover agents posing as Qaeda operatives that critics call entrapment; the creation of huge, secret data collections in the name of national security; and last September, the targeted killing of an American, Anwar al-Awlaki, without judicial review.

The intelligence and security agencies have hugely expanded their payrolls, and Beltway contracting companies have cashed in. When the director of national intelligence reported last year that 4.2 million Americans working for the government or contractors hold security clearances, that total astonished even experts in the field. But in the latest report, the number has climbed again, to 4.86 million.

In return for the bulked-up surveillance and the costly security industry boom, some counterterrorism officials would say the nation has gotten a good deal: there has been nothing even close to a repeat of 9/11. Islamic extremists have killed 14 people in the United States since 2001, 13 of them in the shooting spree by an Army psychiatrist at Fort Hood, Texas, in 2009.

What lesson does the decade teach? The next president might reach one of two very different conclusions: to continue its record of success, the government should keep doing everything it is doing, and Americans should accept that the trade-offs of the national security state are permanent. Or: the terrorism emergency that began with 9/11 has eased, the threat has diminished, so the security bureaucracy should shrink accordingly and the pendulum should swing back in favor of civil liberties and individual privacy.

This policy choice is made more urgent by the explosion of commercial data collection and the stunning advances in technology to collect and store information. Like never before, the government is tapping into the ballooning information that companies collect on their customers, from airline tickets to e-mails. Your cellphone, meanwhile, records every move you make, and it gets cheaper every month to store a warehouse full of data about Americans.

These three forces – the desire to stay safe from terrorism, the drive for marketing data and the explosion of computer and communications technology – threaten to alter permanently the balance between security and liberty. And many of the relevant decisions are being made in secret, behind a veil of government classification or company confidentiality.

What is the proper balance between liberty and security? Would you like to see the government alter the trade-offs of post-9/11 America? Do you fear the scrutiny of the Department of Homeland Security more than that of Walmart? Do you think much about the electronic trail you leave as you go about your day? Have you taken any steps to protect yourself from the prying gaze of the government? Or do you feel better when you read about the formidable security bureaucracy built up since 9/11?

In the coming weeks, we will be using this space to examine these trade-offs and asking readers, outside experts and government officials to participate in a discussion about the country’s direction and the policy choices facing the next president. We invite you to ask questions and explain your thinking. To do so, you can post a comment below or send an e-mail to agenda@nytimes.com.

Later this summer we will publish a reported essay framing the issue that we hope will lead to further discussion. This is one of several topics The Times is exploring in a series we’re calling the Agenda, through which we plan to address some of the big issues facing the country as we prepare to elect a president.