
The Council That Kicked The Hornet’s Nest — Why TODAY Matters for Start-Ups 199 Comments

Written by Tim Ferriss 


This man hates you and your start-up.
7/10/12 UPDATE: DC Shelves Uber Amendment After Backlash from CEO and Customers. My dear readers, you all ROCK. Truly well done. It is a bright day for start-ups, and thank you for your support :)

Hi All,

This short post is more like a personal letter, because I just came across something that made me very angry. Namely, a tweet from my bud, Kevin Rose:

    Wow, a business (Uber) is prevented from lowering its prices.. wait.. what? We live in America, right?
    http://tcrn.ch/NfYOT3

In full disclosure, I’ve been an advisor to Uber from the beginning. They’re amazing. I work with 20+ start-ups because I enjoy helping entrepreneurs who want to change the world. Small-business founders are the value creators of our economy. Period, end of story.

But sometimes the corrupt (often with a track record) try to stifle the little guys. Incumbents don’t like to compete. They enjoy their defacto monopolies, are accustomed to bilking customers at will, and don’t want to change things…

Pardon my Long Island French, but here’s how I feel: Fuck those guys.

Protecting the status quo doesn’t impress me. In fact, it really pisses me off.

The last time I implored you to spend a few minutes to change laws, we helped successfully ban the distribution and sale of shark fins in Washington and California, the latter being the largest importer of shark fins in the United States.

YOUR TINY ACTIONS, PUT TOGETHER, CAN MOVE MOUNTAINS.

Below is a snapshot of the Uber situation from the TechCrunch article, and I have a little ask at the end. It’ll get you some good karma:

    The Council’s intention is to prevent Uber from being a viable alternative to taxis by enacting a price floor to set Uber’s minimum fare at today’s rates and no less than 5 times a taxi’s minimum fare. Consequently they are handicapping a reliable, high-quality transportation alternative so that Uber cannot offer a high quality service at the best possible price. It was hard for us to believe that an elected body would choose to keep prices of a transportation service artificially high – but the goal is essentially to protect a taxi industry that has significant experience in influencing local politicians. They want to make sure there is no viable alternative to a taxi in Washington DC, and so on Tuesday [today!], the DC City Council is going to formalize that principle into law.

    …

    Take Action

    THE COUNCIL VOTES ON THE UBER AMENDMENT [TODAY]!

    If each of us writes or calls our DC Council people, we could make an impact on this law. What are we asking for?

    Strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment.

    Here are the City Council members’ contact info. Call/write as many of them as possible!

    [7/10/12 UPDATE: No need to call or email anymore! DC Shelves Uber Amendment After Backlash from CEO and Customers.]

    Phil Mendelson (Chairman), (202) 724-8064, pmendelson@dccouncil.us
    Mary Cheh, Ward 3, (Chairperson of Committee on the Environment, Public Works and Transportation), (202) 724-8062, mcheh@dccouncil.us, @marycheh
    Michael Brown, at-large, (202) 724-8105, mbrown@dccouncil.us, @cmmichaelabrown
    Jim Graham, Ward 1, (202) 724-8181, jgraham@dccouncil.us, @jimgrahamward1
    Jack Evans, Ward 2, (202) 724-8058, jevans@dccouncil.us, @jackevansward2
    Muriel Bowser, Ward 4, (202) 724-8052, mbowser@dccouncil.us, @murielbowser
    Kenyan McDuffie, Ward 5, (202) 724-8028, kmcduffie@dccouncil.us,@kenyanmcduffie
    Tommy Wells, Ward 6, (202) 724-8072, twells@dccouncil.us, @tommywells
    Yvette Alexander, Ward 7, (202) 724-8068, yalexander@dccouncil.us, @cmyma
    Marion Barry, Ward 8, (202) 724-8045, mbarry@dccouncil.us, @marionbarryjr
    David Catania, at-large, (202) 724-7772, dcatania@dccouncil.us, @cataniapress
    Vincent Orange, at-large, (202) 724-8174, vorange@dccouncil.us, @vincentorangedc 

Those of you who read this blog know that I never write posts like this.

But I take this attack on Uber as a DC government-condoned attack on start-ups. I view it as an entrenched middle finger from incumbents who aren’t willing to improve their product or lower prices. Instead, they resort to underhanded legal means to handicap innovation. It makes my blood boil.

So, here’s what I’m going to do.

1) I’m going to e-mail every one of the above people today and tell them to read this post. E-mail helps, but phone is better…

2) Personally, I’m going to call every one of them today and politely but firmly ask them to “strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment.” I will have my assistants do the same. This shouldn’t take more than 20 minutes or so, but I won’t ask that of you…

3) I’m going to ask you all — the 1,000,000+ unique readers of this blog — to call as many of the above as possible. Let’s aim for the first four. But there’s more… Politely but firmly, get the name of the person you’re speaking with, tell them you’d like them to “strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment” and then ask them if they’re in favor of innovation or incumbents. Last, indicate that you’ll be putting their responses in the comments below.
7/10/12 UPDATE: DC Shelves Uber Amendment After Backlash from CEO and Customers. :)

—

This DC attack could set a horrible precedent for start-ups trying to improve any space with large incumbents. If you have a few minutes, please make one phone call. It will earn you positive karma… and the knowledge that you didn’t stand still and watch Goliath snuff out David with his thumb. There’s something real to be said for that.

Sorry for the rant, but this one is legitimate. To my mind, it cannot go unanswered.

Please spread the call to action far and wide. This is time-sensitive and needs to happen ASAP today.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





Chris Huang — July 10th, 2012, 1:26 am

Wow. This is ridiculous. I’m from Canada but done and done.
	

Elijah Szasz — July 10th, 2012, 1:31 am

That’s some BS for sure. I use Uber all the time in Santa Monica and applaude them for reinventing an industry with a completely broken model. That price mandate is totally ridiculous. It blows my mind that this kind of garbage is even an issue. I’m writing the counsel members immediately.
	

    Tim Ferriss — July 10th, 2012, 1:38 am

    Thank you both!
    	

        Elijah Szasz — July 11th, 2012, 12:28 pm

        Props to Mary for actually writing back:

        From: “Cheh, Mary (COUNCIL)”
        Subject: RE: Strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment.
        Date: July 11, 2012 11:56:28 AM PDT
        To: Elijah Szasz

        I very much share your enthusiasm for Uber. From the outset, I have wanted to ensure that Uber is able to continue operating legally in the District, and in truth, my amendment was actually meant to do just that. I think innovation is good, and I think that the District—with Captial Bikeshare, car2go, the Circulator, and Uber—is at the forefront of progressive transportation options. I am pleased to report that we were able to work something out that was satisfactory to both Uber and the Council, and I’ll be working to introduce more permanent legislation in the fall.

        Thanks for your note.

        Regards,

        Mary
        

        Ryan — July 12th, 2012, 8:35 am

        I got the same response as Elijah back from Mary Cheh.
       	

    Tyler — July 15th, 2012, 6:09 pm

    Hey guys i didn’t know where to leave a comment like this but here it goes. I’m 19 and i have completed one year of college and i currently work a 9-5 at a bank and i can clearly see from all the other older employees that i do NOT want to go anywhere with banking. More importantly, i feel like this book was addressed to college GRADUATES working a 9-5 who want out of that lifestyle. Can someone give some input on whether or not a college degree is necessary to live a “4-hour workweek” lifestyle.
    	

Sakira — July 10th, 2012, 1:34 am

Can I do anything as an Israeli Ferriss-panuer living in Israel at the moment? Will it help?
Pls lemme know


    Tim Ferriss — July 10th, 2012, 1:35 am

    Hi Sakira,

    I don’t see how emailing could hurt! Whatever you are up for would be most appreciated! Every email helps.

    All the best and thank you for asking,

    Tim
   	

        Shakira — July 10th, 2012, 2:06 am

        Done!

        To all overseasERS .. This is how I chose to conclude my email:

        FYI
        Your name and response will be published in a blog of a 1,000,000 + readers.
        If you’ll ignore this email, your name will be published as the
        DC Council-member who chose to ignore my email.

        Best
        Shunit Cohen
        	

    Mari — July 10th, 2012, 1:59 am

    I’m outside of the United States, but I emailed the first four and send tweets to the rest of them.

    Great initiative, Tim!
    Reply	

    Patrice — July 10th, 2012, 5:50 am

    thats a kickass end to your email, hope you dont mind but have paraphrased in my email… this would be a tragedy if it goes ahead
    	

Matt Kelly — July 10th, 2012, 1:48 am

Tim, I’ll be emailing from Australia. For too long have stale, old governments attempted to slow innovation. Disruption to old markets isn’t just a good thing, its necessary.

Matt
	

Justin Murray — July 10th, 2012, 1:50 am

Hey Tim,

Good article. I think with your influence and intelligence, you can really make a difference with some of these injustices. I’m the kind of guy who wishes that “The Newsroom” show on HBO was real. The majority of Americans need to wake up to this kind of government abuse. I’m having a problem with gaining funding for my concept that will change the world for the better… sharesobrietydotcom (it is in dev. phase, but their is a fully functioning social network under the Share tab) I just want a place for sober, or people who want to be sober, to share and chat when their are no AA meetings going on (i.e. late at night) I tried applying for kickstarter but I was denied due to technicalities. Do you know of any options? Thanks in advance and I’ll be calling those politicians tomorrow morning!
	

Roger P — July 10th, 2012, 1:52 am

Tim, when you mentioned a late-night rant via Twitter, I expected it to be an interesting read. This, however, is disgusting. Not that much our wonderful government does these days isn’t disgusting, but still. I will be emailing in the morning. As for calling, I’d rather leave that to Insultron (http://twitter.com/insultron), but I fear that will do more harm than good. I suppose I can save it until afterward, if this does pass into law.

For anyone else here, please read the linked TechCruch article, as there are more details there. I think Tim has been very restrained and professional in this rant, so you should read the article to see just how bad this is. And please do your part to call them out on this.
	

    Roger P — July 10th, 2012, 2:14 am

    Also, I don’t know if this would be effective, but it’s worth trying: http://www.change.org/petitions/dc-council-strike-down-the-minimum-fare-language-from-the-uber-amendment
    Reply	

    mark — July 10th, 2012, 4:17 pm

    hey Tim. I called 5 but most of them were “in session” I don’t normally act on this stuff but you garner a lot of trust. Thank you for rallying the troops for a call to action we could easily participate in and not abusing your power.

    Glad a small business didn’t get bullied for once.
    	

Izzy — July 10th, 2012, 1:53 am

Emailed. Uber is awesome in SF!

Can you create a link so people can sign up to protest? I think a million signatures will get more press coverage and pressure than 1M unread messages in their inbox.
	

Erin — July 10th, 2012, 1:56 am

Dropped a few emails and as luck would have it my iMac’s sound decided not to work so I hope my 30 second silent call to Phil Mendelson. Was creepy enough to end this.


Chris McAtominey — July 10th, 2012, 1:57 am

Should this initiative fail, as an advisor to Uber perhaps the following might work:
1) Uber charge the 5x minimum fare but at the same time show what the local taxi fare would be.
2) Have a disclaimer that if you are not happy with the service / fare then pay what you think is appropriate (ie the local taxi fare).
This way they are complying with the law but protecting consumer interests by allowing them the option to pay the lower fare. Tacitally everybody knows that they are charging the same but are being bartered down from a higher fare.

Uber has only just launched in London and I’ve not had a chance to try it out. The biggest barrier here as far as I see is the drivers not having The Knowledge compared to black cab drivers.
	

Dan — July 10th, 2012, 2:00 am

Hi Tim,

I live in the UK but am outraged they could even consider this. Just emailed everyone listed above.

Dan
	

    Dan — July 10th, 2012, 7:45 am

    I actually got a reply from one:

    Dan – Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

    Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans
    Chief of Staff
    	

        Tyler Smith — July 10th, 2012, 7:54 am

        I got the same response ;)
        

Tyler Smith — July 10th, 2012, 2:02 am

I just emailed all of them! Will call them during business hours.

Here’s an easier list to cut and paste into an email client:

pmendelson@dccouncil.us, mcheh@dccouncil.us, mbrown@dccouncil.us, jgraham@dccouncil.us, jevans@dccouncil.us, mbowser@dccouncil.us, kmcduffie@dccouncil.us, twells@dccouncil.us, yalexander@dccouncil.us, mbarry@dccouncil.us, dcatania@dccouncil.us, vorange@dccouncil.us
	

    Elizabeth / Jo Murray — July 10th, 2012, 8:06 am

    Done, for what it’s worth. Don’t normally get into or involved in this stuff, but I am so totally over, on a global scale, the lack of integrity & obglitation people elected to serve “the people” display.
    Hoe it all works,
    Cheers, J
    	

    Joshua — July 10th, 2012, 8:41 am

    Emailed them all. And sent messages in Twitter. Thanks for the copy paste list.
    	

    Steve — July 10th, 2012, 9:13 am

    Thanks for the cut/paste email list. Emailed them all. Can’t wait for an update after the Council meeting …
   	

    Scott — July 10th, 2012, 1:08 pm

    Thanks Tyler!
    	

    Tim Ferriss — July 10th, 2012, 4:11 pm

    Thanks for the easier formatting, Tyler!
    	

Hannah — July 10th, 2012, 2:12 am

Done. Have emailed everyone on the list.


Alex Lenox — July 10th, 2012, 2:12 am

Tim, I’m in Afghanistan serving with the US Army, but I’m all over this.

Emailing now.
	
    Clark — July 10th, 2012, 11:21 am

    Godspeed
    	

Christian Thurston — July 10th, 2012, 2:17 am

Ok, so I sent them all emails (I’m Aussie btw). I doubt I’ll get a response so I thought I should paste the email here. The more people do this, the further this thread will travel and when the council sees this post they’ll look at the number of comments as a metric to gauge how much they have to lose on this issue.

BTW Tim, have you considered have a section on this site to deal with entrepreneurship under attack? I know you don’t post this stuff often but I do enjoy hearing about cases like these and ways to stand up for things I believe in. Having a separate section is a bit like your policeman analogy, we can go there any time but you don’t have to stop traffic (pun intended) to get it to us.

Thanks for letting me know about this and can you do a follow up on what happens?

=======================================

An Address To The Council:

Please strike down the minimum fare language from the Uber amendment. Now is your chance to show you support innovation, entrepreneurship and the revival of the US economy. It’s about maintaining a system of meritocracy and a free market. It’s about representing the true interests of your constituents. In 100 years, when we’re all dusk and from then onwards what will your legacy be? Will you name be spoken of by your progeny with pride or will they avoid discussing you at all?

In the end history will be your judge as surely as it is for Lincoln as surely as it is for Warren Harding. So, what’s it going to be? Today, are you going to be a Lincoln or a Harding? Do the right thing, sleep well at night and make your families proud – strike down the minimum fare language from the Uber amendment. Listen to that quiet voice in the back of your head that’s urging you to be a person of integrity, come what may.

Thank you for your attention and kind regards,

Christian Thurston
	

Trent — July 10th, 2012, 2:17 am

Done from an Aussie living in Ukraine :)
	

kelly — July 10th, 2012, 2:19 am

Hate to be Captain Obvious… But this is nothing new and happens all the time. Welcome to America 2012 where we have been loosing control of our government for a decade but nobody gets angry until it affects them directly. Make yourself comfortable. We saved you a seat.
	

    Amir Lehrer — July 10th, 2012, 8:43 am

    Yes Kelly, it does happen all the time and it is about time that it stops. The little people never had a voice this powerful before and it is getting more powerful by the year.
    	

    Ryan — July 10th, 2012, 9:23 am

    Dear Council Men and Women,

    I am writing today, asking that you strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment, being voted on today.

    Please see this post for a full explanation of my concerns.

    I would certainly appreciate a response to this e-mail and am interested to know whether you as a councilman or woman value innovation or incumbents? I will be publishing your response (by name) in the comments of the above referenced blog. I will take your failure to respond to mean that you value incumbents and have voted such.

    Sincerest thanks for your attention in this matter,

    Ryan Flynn
    	

        Ryan — July 12th, 2012, 8:36 am

        From Council Mary Cheh:

        “I very much share your enthusiasm for Uber. From the outset, I have wanted to ensure that Uber is able to continue operating legally in the District, and in truth, my amendment was actually meant to do just that. I think innovation is good, and I think that the District—with Captial Bikeshare, car2go, the Circulator, and Uber—is at the forefront of progressive transportation options. I am pleased to report that we were able to work something out that was satisfactory to both Uber and the Council, and I’ll be working to introduce more permanent legislation in the fall.”
        	

Simon Rutherford — July 10th, 2012, 2:19 am

Emailed them all from London. Competition between ‘Black cabs’ (your standard ‘metered’ cab) and ‘Minicabs’ (set fares based on distance) here is fantastic for the consumer. To rule so severely against the competition reeks of kick-backs…
	

Luis — July 10th, 2012, 2:30 am

Ever wonder why the Gree nline in Los Angeles does not go directly to LAX? Yup the taxi lobbyist worked long and hard to kill a subway line that you would actually use. Consider this priority one later today.


Philippe — July 10th, 2012, 2:40 am

It’s definitely a disgrace what they’re trying to do. I live in Belgium, but I’m definitely sending them an email.

Startups rule the world!
	

AndyMouf — July 10th, 2012, 2:40 am

Hi Guys 

Please bring in more car sharing transport options and allow innovation to change the industry 

The whole taxi and car hire system needs a complete overhaul it’s antiquated and doesn’t reflect world we now live in or consumer demands 

Perhaps you can issue Taxi corporations with car share and self drive taxi licences and plates

Please remove the min fare conditions in the Über amendment 

You need to promote innovation and new business ideas across all forms of transport 

Thanks for making a change 

Regards Andrew
	

David Pfahler — July 10th, 2012, 2:44 am

I sent an email to all council members. I’m German, but you don’t have to tell them, right? ;)

Here is a list of the twitter handles that might be useful to contact them on twitter: https://gist.github.com/3082309

More important, here is the email template I used: https://gist.github.com/3082322

Please suggest improvements on both if you have any.

I love this kind of politic work. I’m a member of the German Pirate Party and we try to do such stuff all the time (but of course we don’t have Tim’s reach).
	

AndyMouf — July 10th, 2012, 3:03 am

Guys this is a nationwide and global most who protect lucrative Taxi Car Hire industry for own revenues or exorbitant plate prices and licence fees

DC are setting min fare at $15 which is Über min fee anyway you really want min fare removed or set at $5 and bring in self hire self drive cars at $5 an hour while your at it!


Alexander — July 10th, 2012, 3:10 am

Wait, why shouldn’t we protect the taxi drivers?
	

    Jake — July 10th, 2012, 8:18 am

    Er… Spin it round.

    Why should we protect the taxi drivers? Why should a consumer not get a competitive price for their transport?
    Reply	

        Greg — July 10th, 2012, 8:59 am

        Well, why don’t they remove the regulations on taxi drivers to allow them to be more competitive to Uber? I don’t know the extent of all the regulations – permits, medallions, etc. But it seems like everyone was getting mad at how Uber found the loophole and exploited a cost advantage, and trying (through knee jerk price fixing) to level the field a bit.

        Nothing wrong with finding and using some unknown advantages – that is what startups are good at, but if this fight is about “equality” and allowing innovation to thrive, why no allow the taxi businesses to innovate as well? Why not get rid of their restrictions so things are played on a level field?
        	

Thomas — July 10th, 2012, 3:15 am

Is atlas shrugging??
Lobbies are fucking disgusting.
They have no balls, so they cheat.
	

    Matt — July 10th, 2012, 10:45 am

    My thoughts exactly!
    Reply	

    Erica — July 10th, 2012, 10:46 am

    Atlas Shrugged was my first thought as well
    	

Doug Foley — July 10th, 2012, 4:03 am

Tim,

What is the #hastag we can use?? It’s time to rock DC. Politics has no place in small business.


Olly Hermon-Taylor — July 10th, 2012, 4:06 am

Out of respect to you Tim, I’ve emailed all of the people on the list with the following email, even though I’m based in the UK. This is akin to price fixing and has no place in a free-market economy! Hope it helps in some small way…

Dear Sir / Madam,

If you haven’t already, I strongly suggest you read this blog post [link] regarding the ‘Uber Amendment’.

Please do the right thing and strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment.

Thank you in advance for your time and commitment to doing the right thing.

Yours sincerely,

–
Oliver Hermon-Taylor
	

MattK — July 10th, 2012, 4:27 am

It’s a sad day when man can no longer trust his government. . .


    Jeff Nabers — July 13th, 2012, 3:45 am

    I think it was a sad day when a man thought he could trust his government. That’s just silly.

    And a happy day when he woke up and thought maybe monopoly isn’t the answer.
    	

J. Roto — July 10th, 2012, 4:28 am

Dude, consider it done…and consider it done by 4 others I work with.
	

Alex H — July 10th, 2012, 5:13 am

What pig-headedness…it’s disgusting. It’s un-American! They’ll be hearing from me. Politely but firmly.
	

Patrice — July 10th, 2012, 5:16 am

Getting on it and shared this with friends from UK and France, it’s important to act now and not wait for others to do it for us…
	

Franklin — July 10th, 2012, 5:26 am

Done. This is a disgusting display of entrenched power and cronyism. Thanks for bringing it to light.


andres — July 10th, 2012, 5:33 am

done. By the way here in Chile we have this service since like forever (minus the apps), its called ‘radio taxi’ and it´s even cheaper than regular taxis. And somehow taxis still are roaming the street .

Figth the power!!
	

    andres — July 10th, 2012, 5:36 am

    Just by looking at the service it has a great advantage to the driver: it lets him/her know who they are letting in their ride. that is a mayor safety consideration.

    should you need a recrouting pitch.
    	

Ethan Hale — July 10th, 2012, 5:37 am

Doing this. I am proud that you spoke out on this issue. It id time that we the people remind our elected officials that they work for us!


Kamakiri the Pizzamancer — July 10th, 2012, 5:42 am

Hey Tim. I posted your blog to my fb page. Thanks for sending the Chinese version of the 4HWW. My old assistant manager from my pizza days really enjoyed the book.

I know I bug you about it every year, but stop by 4:30 and B. I have a PBR with your name on it.
	

    Kamakiri the Pizzamancer — July 10th, 2012, 6:11 am

    Update: I posted to fb, sent off emails to each person on the list. Sent an email to Seth Godin, asking for his support, and sent your post to the most prolific Burning Man supporter on the internet. I hope it has some impact.
    	

Jim Haynes — July 10th, 2012, 5:46 am

I wrote everyone on the DC Council. I also told Uber that 20 years ago Ron Linton, who was then chairman of the Metropolitan Washington Airport Authority, got his pilots license at my company. Ron encouraged me to bid for the FBO at Reagan Washington Airport. Larry O’Brien, then chairman of the Democratic Party and a powerful lobbyist, was hired by my competition (Butler Aviation then owned by the Bass brothers of Texas), and my proposal, while offering the most money and, in my opinion the best improvements, was squashed. Ron Linton is now the Chairman of the DC Taxi Commission. I would like to remind him how a small company was treated 20 years ago. I hope the outcome for Uber is different.
	

    Riley Cabot — July 10th, 2012, 1:21 pm

    I love this!
    	

Jeff — July 10th, 2012, 5:51 am

Sent an email to the group asking them to turn this into a positive. I am sure Tim has shut down their servers already :)

It would be great to pull this into the Presidential talk points for the day. If anyone on here has that kind of influence.
	

Michael — July 10th, 2012, 6:10 am

Wow. This is insane. A problem in America is that all these ridiculous laws pass and nobody notices. They pass them silently to avoid arguments. Thanks for sharing this. Someone has to!
	

Adam — July 10th, 2012, 6:24 am

A cartel, protecting it’s members.

The problem is, to define the difference between a minimum wage law and a minimum price law?
The former corrects an anarchist market from racing to the bottom, the latter, stifles the ability, for the market to be efficient.

The former says, if you can’t afford to pay your people a pittance an hour, you don’t deserve to be in business, the latter says, even though you should not be in business, given the amount you are charging and your quality of service, we are going to prevent the Cavalry from arriving to correct the market.

The former is a beneficial to society, the latter, detrimental.

Off topic: is this another situation where it’s going to come down to law, and who has the vast resources and time to fight a case?
I feel, these days you need to train as a lawyer, as an add-on, to whatever your main occupation is. Sort of like, I am an {insert profession} but I have a black belt in Law. I believe there was a TED talk on this.
	

deanna — July 10th, 2012, 6:24 am

I know you’re a busy guy, but I wonder if you get more people to participant if…you wrote up a brief letter that everyone could copy and paste and send in an email. So many people get a little bit uncomfortable (including me) when we have to write anything formal. Its just a thought. I love what you are doing here.
	

Graeme — July 10th, 2012, 6:36 am

I called the list. I’ve lived in DC before, and sometimes it was tough to get a cab on time.

They all knew what my position would be before I spoke :) They said they’ve received nothing but calls of support for removing the provision.

One councillor’s rep from lower down the list said he’d received over 40 calls as of 9:36 am EST, and hundreds of emails. The councillors are having a pre-council meeting to discuss.
	

Allen — July 10th, 2012, 6:38 am

I wonder how many free pizzas and free flooring samples these guys ate going to get?
	

Zach — July 10th, 2012, 6:44 am

Looks like people are calling in. I got a number of hurried and nervous responses from various people as I was transferred through the phone system. One person in Mary Cheh’s office responded “I’m assuming that you’re against the bill since everyone calling since yesterday was as well. I’m keeping a tally and I’ll mark you down.”

As an entrepreneur this is important to me. No government should be micromanaging any businesses pricing model. This is anti-competitive and not surprising unfortunately.

They are voting on this at 10am est, today, July 10, 2012.
	

Dre Baldwin — July 10th, 2012, 6:47 am

Called Michael Brown, left the message with his assistant. Assistant doesn’t know Brown’s stance on innovation vs incumbents.
	

Ellis Benus — July 10th, 2012, 6:47 am

Thank you for posting this and getting the awareness out there!

I’ve contacted every person via email and twitter. I’ve published on my own website, and every social media outlet I’m on.

I hope and pray we get these people’s attention, and everyone else’s attention who would stifle innovation and creativity! These are elected people. Let’s show them we mean business!
	

Fletcher — July 10th, 2012, 6:48 am

As a DC local, I called my council member early this morning, and he (Jack Evans, Ward 2) is planning to introduce an amendment to get rid of the minimum fare language. There’s hope yet!
	

Nathan — July 10th, 2012, 6:48 am

Tim,

Emailed all Council Members and will call as well. This is total BS. Here’s a draft email that your readers that live in the District can cut and paste if they wish:

Council Members,

I am a resident (and voter) of the District and am proud to call DC my home and place of work.

I was shocked this morning to read about the minimum fare language in the Uber Amendment that you will be voting on today. As a resident of DC I use both DC Taxis and the Uber Service. They are distinct services and we have room for both.

More importantly we should be encouraging small businesses and innovation – not legislating it out of existence.

Please vote against the minimum fare amendment.

Also please note that this issue is getting national attention and how you vote will be followed by DC voters as well as others nationwide.

http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/2012/07/10/the-council-that-kicked-the-hornets-nest-a-rare-call-to-action/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+timferriss+%28The+Blog+of+Author+Tim+Ferriss%29&utm_content=Google+Feedfetcher
	

Corey — July 10th, 2012, 6:51 am

Tim:

Been a very, very long time follower of you and your work. Big Fan. I called two of the offices on your list. This is total BS and hopefully more of your readership will call as well.

Corey
	

Corey — July 10th, 2012, 6:52 am

Tim:

Been a long time follower of you and your work. I called two of the offices. Hopefully more of your readership will do the same.

Corey
	

Graham — July 10th, 2012, 6:52 am

This should come as no surprise to anyone who’s been paying attention. The politicians are all crooks and care not for your freedoms.
	

Josh — July 10th, 2012, 6:52 am

Done!
	

Tom Dickerman — July 10th, 2012, 6:53 am

I went a little over the top but its how I feel thanks Tim for letting us in on this atrocity.

Mr. Mendelson,

I am sure that by now you have received a plethora of emails in reference to the Uber
amendment. Does the American dream still exist? Do we have the opportunity to be anything
and do everything that we ever wished still? I personally would not only implore you to
change this outcome, I would advise you to do so in a swift timely manner so as to not
push us further towards the dark tunnel our country is going into. Please vote no on this
amendment today and make the United States a little closer to what it was meant to be.
	

Alana — July 10th, 2012, 6:55 am

Done! It blows my mind that we have to fight for something like this.


Travis — July 10th, 2012, 6:56 am

Done, cheers from Down Under!


Farid — July 10th, 2012, 6:56 am

Typo: Line 8 from the top “…because because…”

Delete comment later. :)


Robert — July 10th, 2012, 6:58 am

If this passes, at least you’ll be better off than the shark fin trade which you used government force to keep out of the market. Uber would still be able to exist.


Threadgold — July 10th, 2012, 6:58 am

Action taken!
	

Alex — July 10th, 2012, 6:59 am

Sent the Following Email –

Dear Council Members,

I’m working on a business with two cofounders – one in Boston and one in DC. One of these places will be our home provided things go well for us in the next few months, but I am concerned with DC as a startup-friendly environment given the “Uber Amendment” being voted on today. To put it bluntly, putting a price floor on a service like Uber is economically and socially irresponsible. Improvements in quality of life are driven by innovation. Should the internet cost “at least 5x the minimum telephone bill” to protect phone companies? Should airplane tickets cost “at least 5x the cost of a horse and buggy ride of the same length” to protect Amish transportation businesses?

I hope I’m preaching to the choir and you all understand this and will vote accordingly, but even if you disagree consider this: passing this Amendment discourages the country’s only booming industry from taking route in your district.

Thanks for your time,
Alex
	

    Alex — July 10th, 2012, 7:09 am

    Got this reply. Looks like progress?

    Alex – Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

    Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans

    Chief of Staff
    	

Peter S. — July 10th, 2012, 7:01 am

As a DC local, let me remind readers that these government officials are the folks who complain longest and loudest that Washington is not permitted to become the 51st State of the U.S.

If you are an American, point out to them that shenanigans like this provide you with a strong reason to oppose DC claims to Statehood.
	

Karisa b — July 10th, 2012, 7:02 am

Just received the following bounceback from the emails I sent:

Karisa – Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other councilmembers, particularly your at-large councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans
Chief of Staff
	

Beth — July 10th, 2012, 7:07 am

Called and emailed first four. I visit DC on at least a yearly basis and am well aware of the need for alternatives to the current system.
	

Connor — July 10th, 2012, 7:13 am

Thanks for doing this, i live right across the river in northern VA and the taxis in this city are horrible. They won’t take you from DC to Arlington, where a lot of young professionals live. so you have to pretend to be on the phone and then change your destination last minute like “Oh whats that person i’m meeting up with who i am on the phone with right now? Meeting you 5 minutes further in arlington? let me tell the driver.”
It is crazy sauce.
	

Nate — July 10th, 2012, 7:19 am

So, if minimum fare, a law to artificially inflate rates, is bad for society… then what about minimum wage?

Should we start a campaign to eliminate minimum wage? After all minimum wage laws that increase unemployment for low skilled inner city kids and prevent them from taking that first step towards the American dream.

Or is “minimum fare” just bad for Tim’s stock options?
	

Michael J Stone — July 10th, 2012, 7:27 am

Tim,
Here is what I emailed to all council members:

Dear City Council Chairman Mendelson, ,
By this time I am sure you are aware of the efforts put forth by Tim Ferriss to ask you to strike down the Minimum Fare language from the Uber Ammendment.

Not only is legislature that favors incumbents and status quo inappropriate, it is unethical and damaging to our entire economy. With a 14% real unemployment status, there is nothing more practical than supporting small business startups.

Please read Tim’s post here:
http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/2012/07/10/the-council-that-kicked-the-hornets-nest-a-rare-call-to-action/

I would also like you to consider the article I wrote in response to the 60 Minute piece entitled, “Trapped in Unemployment.” Business Ownership has to be a viable option if we are to succeed.

http://ezinearticles.com/?Career-Management:-The-American-Dream—Broke-and-Broken-(AKA-60-Minutes-Off-Course)&id=6912918

Thank you for your time and attention.
Do Great Things!
Michael J. Stone
South, Hadley MA

Abraham Lincoln understood that startups were the natural progression toward prosperity: “The prudent, penniless beginner in the world, labors for wages awhile, saves a surplus with which to buy tools or land, for himself; then labors on his own account another while, and at length hires another new beginner to help him. This…is free labor–the just and generous, and prosperous system, which opens the way for all.”


Andrew — July 10th, 2012, 7:28 am

i emailed all the ppl on the list and called the first phone number on the list and their assistant ansewerd and said they have been getting calls and emails all day and said that the amendment has been dropped :)
	

Mark Dittman — July 10th, 2012, 7:40 am

I gave 2 of them a call. Their office is right near mine. I hate to say it, but Mr. Ferriss, now you are the Goliath.
	

Ronnie Sandlin — July 10th, 2012, 7:40 am

I called in the first 4 and they said they are currently having a meeting about the situation now
	

Dave — July 10th, 2012, 7:44 am

You had me up until this line:

“Personally, I’m going to call every one of them today…I will have my assistants do the same.”

Telling your employees to engage in political activity on your behalf just really feels *wrong*. What if they don’t agree with your political point of view on this particular issue? Will there be repercussions for them if they decline to make the phone calls? Might they lose their employment with you, or face other sanctions?
	

Sergey — July 10th, 2012, 7:46 am

EVERYONE SIGN THE PETITION TO STOP THIS!

http://www.change.org/petitions/dc-council-strike-down-the-minimum-fare-language-from-the-uber-amendment?utm_campaign=share_button_modal&utm_medium=facebook&utm_source=share_petition
	

Carl — July 10th, 2012, 7:53 am

Institute for Justice. They litigate against these kinds of shennanighans all the time. ij.org


David Pfahler — July 10th, 2012, 8:00 am

UPDATE. I also got an response from Jack Evans. Maybe something is happening here. The following is the original email:

David – Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans

Chief of Staff
	

Carl — July 10th, 2012, 8:02 am

Just received a an auto-reply from Jack Evans Chief of Staff:

Carl – Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans

Chief of Staff
	

Jake R — July 10th, 2012, 8:03 am

Tim,
It appears the amendment has been shelved. Good work everyone.
http://dcist.com/2012/07/cheh_shelves_uber_amendment_after_b.php
	

Salem — July 10th, 2012, 8:03 am

Here is the response I got from a member of Jack Evans’ staff:

Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

[Name Removed] on behalf of Jack Evans
	

Brett — July 10th, 2012, 8:04 am

Done and done. Thanks for the heads up, Tim. Your philanthropy is exemplary.
	

Ajeet — July 10th, 2012, 8:10 am

Done.
Cheers from India.
	

Jesse — July 10th, 2012, 8:10 am

I now live in a small fishing village in Panama. The same thing happened here. An entrepreneur purchased a fleet of trike motorcycles with carriages to be used as a low price taxi in a town with a severe shortage of public transportation.

She was unable to get them licensed for the road due to the political influence of the taxi unions. If she had succeeded I wouldn’t need to own a car which has become a huge expense and hassle due to the ridiculous laws requiring me to leave the country every 3 months so that I can drive with an international drivers license. Not to mention gas at $4/ gal.

Fight the Man!
	

Charles — July 10th, 2012, 8:11 am

Sent the emails. Also spoke with Britney Hughes in the Chairman’s office – she had no idea on how Phil Mendelson was going to vote, but said they were in the meeting when I called. FYI.
	

Liat Gat — July 10th, 2012, 8:11 am

Done! Thanks for the alert! Here’s my email in case anyone wants to copy it:

“I am a concerned citizen. I understand that there is language in the Uber Agreement that will prevent them from lowering their fares. Are you in favor of innovative, new business helping up solve problems and make our lives better? Or are you in favor of the status quo that has been shown to have many problems?

Please strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment. I implore you, in the name of commuters everywhere.

Thank you for your time.”
	

Daniel Kislyuk — July 10th, 2012, 8:12 am

Done
	

Kristi Centinaro — July 10th, 2012, 8:13 am

For anyone wanting an email template, this is what I sent:

Dear DC Council members,

I have recently heard of the motion to fix taxi fare rates for outside private taxi services such as Uber. This creates an unfair advantage to entrepreneurs trying to get a foothold in a “fixture” industry such as a city taxi service, stifling innovation and the potential for offering better, higher quality service.

It’s creative entrepreneurs like Uber that will help raise the standard and offer options for it’s citizens. The proposed MINIMUM FARE language will stifle the growth of companies like these who will only do good for an industry sector by bringing innovation, competition, and creativity.

To enforce a fixed minimum rate to push out competition to the taxi industry is unethical and saddening to see it even considered. Uphold your integrity and keep fair competition alive by voting against this law.
	

jomar hilario — July 10th, 2012, 8:13 am

Emailed the top 4. Different subjects so any spam filters will have to adjust to it. :) When i opened this post there were 15 comments. After I emailed woah, 75 comments. I was beginning to worry that people didn’t support innovation but now I know I was just early. :)

jomar
(the tim ferriss of the Philippines)
	

Anthony — July 10th, 2012, 8:14 am

I think it’s time you read “Atlas Shrugged” Tim.
	

    Marc — July 10th, 2012, 8:43 am

    Heh, I was thinking the same thing.

    The good ‘ole unification board is hard at work.
   	

Matt — July 10th, 2012, 8:18 am

I’d never heard of Uber before reading this article. You may want to put in a short description of it near the beginning of the article for those of us not familiar with it, so that we can understand why the following legislation matters so much.
	

Greg — July 10th, 2012, 8:20 am

I think this amendment goes about it the wrong way by trying to impose mandatory pricing, but isn’t the real issue that Uber is acting like a taxi service without having to adhere to the regulations and requirement of becoming an actual taxi service?

There was an interesting comment in the TechCrunch article – “suppose someone selling medication online was able to fill people’s prescriptions quickly, accurately, and at a significant discount from your local pharmacist. The one catch – this person wasn’t a licensed pharmacist. Should they be able to be in this profession if they don’t obtain the necessary qualifications?” (paraphrased by me).

Again – I think they went about it in the wrong way by trying to price fix, but isn’t the real issue underneath it all about regulations?
	

Justin — July 10th, 2012, 8:20 am

I’m hearing this has been shelved as a result of the outcry. Can anyone confirm?
	

Caleb — July 10th, 2012, 8:22 am

Called every number and wasn’t able to speak to any of them. Spoke to their secretaries and they “took down my opinion” I’ll be emailing as well. I hope they pull their heads out of their asses on this one… fingers crossed..

Thanks Tim for being out there supporting the fight again these corruptions and standing up for fellow entrepreneurs!


Steve G — July 10th, 2012, 8:30 am

Tim –

If it comes to it, and I hope it doesn’t, you might consider reaching out to the Institute for Justice — http://www.ij.org/about — a litigation boutique focused on just this type of bulls***.

Keep fighting the good fight.

–Steve
	

Mark — July 10th, 2012, 8:31 am

Very cool Tim. Keep it up!
	

bryan — July 10th, 2012, 8:32 am

done. Looks like the outcry may have worked already!! Cheers!
	

Kevin Kermes — July 10th, 2012, 8:37 am

First, a HUGE Thanks to Tim for raising awareness about this outside the District.

Second, an enormous gracias to all who aren’t DC residents yet have taken action and shared your voices to what can only be seen as a pitifully, short-sighted display of bully-ism (might not be a word…yet, but it fits). Tourism is a huge revenue generator here so, with any luck, your outrage will be heard as loudly as ours.

Proud, but frustrated, resident of the Nation’s Capital.

GO UBER!!!
	

Mike July — July 10th, 2012, 8:37 am

Four emails sent. You are copied if you care to read them. Best of luck with your efforts!

MJ
	

John Mellesmoen — July 10th, 2012, 8:38 am

Success! Great job everyone!!
	

Mattia Settimelli — July 10th, 2012, 8:41 am

Emailed from Italy and Uk
	

Jared — July 10th, 2012, 8:46 am

Thanks Tim for alerting us to this! I’m from the DC area so this is what I sent-

Hi,

I grew up in Alexandria, VA and I love DC- I also love entrepreneurship and innovation.

I demand that you strike down the minimum fare language from the Uber Amendment. What an incredibly un-American thing to do, protecting a large lobby power instead of innovation.

If you’re still against doing this, or if you’re on the fence since the negative press you’re getting will kick you out of office, why don’t you take a short drive down the GW Parkway and visit Mount Vernon. Walk on the ground that President Washington lived for and died on…so that everyday Americans (the little guy) could have a shot at changing the world.

I’m going to publish your response online so please be so kind as to let me know your opinion and your vote.

Regards,
	

Rick — July 10th, 2012, 8:55 am

First person on list, Chairman Mendelson; Celeste. She will note my comment. When asked the question, her response was “I’m not sure I am allowed to give my personal opinion, but I can tell You that most people who have called this morning share your opinion.”
Next!!….
	

Douglas — July 10th, 2012, 9:00 am

I can’t believe this is happening. I will certainly send an email.

I don’t want to be scared to be an entrepreneur because of things like this.
	

Rick — July 10th, 2012, 9:03 am

I decided that since the instructions were to start at the top and go down, and call at least One, best Four on the list, that I would call the top One, then go to the bottom One, then 2nd from top, 2nd from bottom, etc…
Very bottom on list- Vincent Orange. I spoke with Doug, who said “The Amendment has been struck down earlier today, and is not going to be voted on today.”
WOW!! I feel part of something, and like Activism actually works! Now to go be proactive on another thing I believe in….. =)
	

sharon leigh — July 10th, 2012, 9:04 am

Done.
Thanks 4 the tip off. Angry? You betchya.
Suprised at the levels of ass-holery? ha-ha
	

Josh — July 10th, 2012, 9:04 am

Email sent. Thanks for notifying us Tim. Hopefully we can help Uber with enough support. :)
	

Mike Bowerman — July 10th, 2012, 9:05 am

To expedite process, here are all the emails in a cut-and-pastable format:

pmendelson@dccouncil.us, mcheh@dccouncil.us, mbrown@dccouncil.us, jgraham@dccouncil.us, jevans@dccouncil.us, mbowser@dccouncil.us, kmcduffie@dccouncil.us, twells@dccouncil.us, yalexander@dccouncil.us, mbarry@dccouncil.us, dcatania@dccouncil.us, vorange@dccouncil.us

Great initiative — I remember Vancouver being plagued by special interests in the taxi world, and my hometown of Calgary has suffered from this as well.
	

Myrna — July 10th, 2012, 9:06 am

I called the last guy on the list this morning- Vincent Orange’s office – to learn the vote has been withdrawn and that their phones have been ringing off the hook.

Tim, I am so grateful for the work you do in this world! I also sent your blog post to The Blaze – to expand your audience on this event even further.

Amen, brother!
	

Ike Johnson — July 10th, 2012, 9:09 am

Done!

tax payer, author and budding entrepeneur
	

Bola Odulate — July 10th, 2012, 9:10 am

First of all, this ***seriously*** ticks me off. In addition to the valid points you’ve made, I’m also annoyed because Uber practically saved my life in the months leading up to my flying away to London for treatment. (Did you know that Uber?) I fully expect to continue using them when I return to San Francisco.

I don’t really feel up to making the phone calls today but I will certainly send at least one email and I will retweet this post.
	

Victoria — July 10th, 2012, 9:12 am

Hello Tim –

As soon as I read your post I started calling. I got through 5 calls and was told Jack had a new amendment with 4 co-sponsors to strike-down the minimum fare. I called 2 more councilmen before my spouse clicked on the TechCrunch article which has been updated to say Mary Cheh has shelved her amendment.

YAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
	

Len Williams — July 10th, 2012, 9:13 am

I called Mary Cheh’s office, since her name popped up the most on the Tech Crunch article. I spoke to Mrs. Benjamin who asked if I had questions about the bill or if I wanted to voice my opinion about it. I said I wanted to voice my opinion. When I asked “innovation or incumbents” question, she would not comment.
	

direwolff — July 10th, 2012, 9:14 am

Hi Tim,

Like anything else, things are never as simple as they seem. Can you provide some additional color in terms of what justification is being given for forcing such terms on Uber? I could imagine that there are coverage issues that Taxi companies deal with that Uber would not be bound by. Your framing of this issue seems pretty black & white, where I’m sure the reality sits more in the grey area and so it would be nice to understand that before blindly launching a “we gotta get the bad people” campaign.

Thanks.
	

skip blankley — July 10th, 2012, 9:17 am

left message with assistant Phil Mendelson

called the first four and Mary Cheh’s assistant Margaret said “it had been stricken”

Michael Brown’s assistant (Kevin) said he would pass the message along and that he had received a lot of calls about it and that the messages were well received.

left voicemail letting Jim Graham know that he should “… strike down… and that this would mean a lot for entrepreneurs everywhere… you know.. the future of our economy…”
	

Bruno A. Pradal — July 10th, 2012, 9:21 am

I live in Mexico, so e-mail was my option. This is what all the council got:

“Title: I’m really worried.
What I’m worried about is that I am starting my career as an entrepreneur. At the age of 35 this may seem as madness to many, but what encourages me, is that there’s always room for improvement if one is willing to put the benefit for the customer as the #1 priority. That’s were financial success is found.
Preventing Uber from lowering its prices won´t help economy. Neither will improve the taxis service. We’re not in this earth to play small, we’re here to challenge ourselves everyday and move the human race forward. Even with things that may seem ordinary in the big scheme.

Make yourselves better than yesterday. Do the right thing and strike down the minimum fare language from the Uber amendment.

Thank you for your attention. Wish you the best.

Bruno A. Pradal

p.s. Babies may prefer to be always in their mother’s arms but we have to force them to walk, even if they whine all along. Maybe is time to help the taxis to stop crawling and start walking.”

Good karma to Uber and to you Tim
	

Drew Taddia — July 10th, 2012, 9:22 am

I emailed all of them.

Unfortunately they told me the polls were closed. I called the first two on the list. The first was very polite the second was more than annoyed with my phone call and unpleasant. I asked him if he could explain why they are trying to pass this amendment, he said ‘it’s not going to happen sir, have a good day. Click’.
	

Geordie Korper — July 10th, 2012, 9:40 am

There needs to be at least one dissenting opinion so here it goes.

DC does not have a medallion system that limits the number of taxicabs. Therefore it is an explicit choice to be regulated under the sedan-class vehicles requirements instead of the taxicab requirements.

As far as I can tell this is not a entrenched interests versus startup issue. Other than that the startup is trying to circumvent the regulations that the existing businesses must operate under.

In exchange for being exempt from the normal requirements for a taxicab in DC a requirement for being a sedan-class vehicles was put in place. That requirement is that the minimum fair be $15 the existing current minimum fare that Uber is charging. Without the amendment a $0.50 surcharge can now be applied to the Uber “public vehicle-for-hire” thus in fact potentially raising the fare!
	

    Greg — July 10th, 2012, 10:59 am

    I was thinking the same thing.

    Just as the council seemed to have a knee-jerk reflex to this issue by trying to require price increases, it seems like we’re not really seeing the big picture here.

    Is Uber being bullied by the big guys or is Uber gaming the system? It sounds like a little bit of both. Sure, trying to pass restrictions that only affect one business is crap and should be fought against. But at the same time, a business that exploits a loophole shouldn’t be surprised when everyone catches on and tries to bring the regulations back in check.

    Ex: The construction industry has building codes, professional requirements, licensing, etc. If another business came in and offered similar services without having to follow the same regulations and restrictions in order to provide a cheaper service (even if it did offer similar results) then I’m guessing there would be a push to prevent this cheaper service from operating on the same playing field.
    	

Peter — July 10th, 2012, 9:59 am

Emailed every one of them individually. Would love to see what their inboxes look like right now! Lets crush this thing!
	

Blake — July 10th, 2012, 9:59 am

I got this post in my inbox on my phone and read it about 2-3 hours ago with only 5 or so comments on here… Finally got on the computer to take action to find out that the bill has already been struck down and this post now has 112 comments! Holy crap this community moves fast. I also saw an online petition that already had close to 4,000 signatures! Proud to be part of such an active community. Thanks for bringing this “public” Tim. I’m still sending e-mail to the above to let them know that this should NEVER be considered again.
	

Chris Odell — July 10th, 2012, 10:03 am

done :)
	

Luke — July 10th, 2012, 10:05 am

I called Phil Mendelson’s office and when I asked if they supported innovation or incumbents I was simply told that she doesn’t know how the chairman is voting today. This is fundamentally unamerican. Why do we keep voting for leaders that would even consider legislation like this? Our dwindling freedoms to pursue life, liberty, and happiness are all but gone and we’re letting it happen. We’re manipulated by media and anybody with the loudest voice. We have to choose between the lesser of two evils at every election. Tim, how can we get this country back? Thanks for using your influence to change the status quo.
	

Mike Gray — July 10th, 2012, 10:16 am

Just called Mary Cheh’s office and was told the language had been stricken.
Nice work Tim and everybody!
	

Anish — July 10th, 2012, 10:19 am

Just confirmed what Skip wrote. Called Councilwomen Chen’s office, her secretary told me the amendment has been “stricken down”

Good job Tim, and thanks for letting us know about this.
	

Drew — July 10th, 2012, 10:21 am

Let’s Rage Against The Machine
	

Drew Costen — July 10th, 2012, 10:31 am

Looks like the outcry worked: http://www.techdirt.com/articles/20120710/09531219647/dc-dumps-bill-to-force-uber-into-high-prices-complains-that-bill-was-to-help-uber.shtml


Kurt — July 10th, 2012, 10:31 am

Did it, and was amazed a human answered the phone. Hope it helps as I visit DC several times per year.
	

Jim Jedow — July 10th, 2012, 10:39 am

Emailed all council members.

Response so far:
Evans, Jack (COUNCIL) JACKEVANS@dccouncil.us
1:34 PM (1 minute ago)

to me
Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans

Chief of Staff
	

Mike Bowerman — July 10th, 2012, 10:40 am

If there is time to update the call-to-action, this might be worthwhile — a reply from Jack Evans’ Chief of Staff:

“Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans

Chief of Staff”
	

    Steve — July 10th, 2012, 11:05 am

    Just got the same reply from Jack Evans’ office. It’s working …
    	

Jeremy Gilsoul — July 10th, 2012, 10:57 am

I hope I wasn’t too late to the party. I emailed all the members on the list. As a small business owner (Who has made more than enough mistakes on his own) it’s vital we don’t allow others to come in and mess up the party too. I agree with Tim so much that we need to stop sacrificing innovation and creativity in the name of status quo or greed!

Hope this helps Tim!

Jeremy
	

Jason De Los Santos — July 10th, 2012, 11:00 am

Thank you for highlighting this point, Tim. Your post highlights some pretty incredulous things by government, but I believe there’s a lot of crucial information being left out. Please see this short article for more details (not mine) http://inthecapital.com/2012/07/10/why-you-should-all-be-confused-on-the-uberdc-issue/
I don’t agree completely with Tim’s one-sided article, I still emailed the commission to strike down the Uber bill, mainly because I don’t believe the government should be in the business of price setting.
	

Jasper van Baars — July 10th, 2012, 11:07 am

report:

phil mendelson: not available
brandy mecdessy:- left voicemail

Michael Brown: not available
kj buksee:- left voicemail
2025079196

Jack Evans:
(202) 724-8058
office latest info they
will strike it down

Good news??!
	

Ryan Turbeville — July 10th, 2012, 11:13 am

Tim, this is a practice that is happening in many cities. Nashville has it’s own minimum for limos that were being used to compete with the taxi companies. A bigger limo company did not want to compete, hired a lobbyist, and got a minimum fare put in place.

The Institute for Justice has taken up this case and is currently fighting it in court with hopes of going all the way to the supremes to prevent these types of laws. You can read about it here and see a video here:

http://www.ij.org/nashville-limos-2

http://youtu.be/BMJbx–kWdA

http://www.ij.org/nashville-limos-release-4-10-12-2

I think this is the best way to fight this and hopefully prevent it in the future.
	

Jonathan — July 10th, 2012, 11:18 am

I spoke with Brittany Hughes in Phil Mendelson’s office. She didn’t know his position, but appreciated the call.

I spoke with Mark in Mary Chen’s office. He told me that she had withdrawn the Amendment.

It looks like this effort succeeded – for now!

It’s great to see efforts like these take place – and succeed.
	

Jimmy — July 10th, 2012, 11:23 am

I sent to all council members. Here is the response that I received almost immediately.

“Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans
Chief of Staff”
	

Andrea — July 10th, 2012, 11:31 am

Done. even if it seems that the council is changing its mind or introducing other language, the pressure has to stay on — else the changes will be struck down.
	

Christian — July 10th, 2012, 11:34 am

just emailed all those officials that I’ll be damned if we live in a country that forces businesses to charge a certain price. the small guy has more power than we know!!!

fuck the status quo…excuse my boston french…
	

Stijn — July 10th, 2012, 11:35 am

From: Evans, Jack
Subject: RE: MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment
Date: 10 Jul 2012 20:22:52 GMT+02:00
To: Stijn

“Councilmember Evans is introducing an amendment that would have no minimum for Uber. We urge you to contact other Councilmembers, particularly your at-large Councilmembers to urge them to support this amendment.

Schannette Grant on behalf of Jack Evans
Chief of Staff”
	

Yonnas — July 10th, 2012, 11:36 am

Thanks Alex. Why shouldn’t Taxi Drivers be protected? Isn’t UBER trying to undercut their business? Isn’t it misleading to frame this argument as you have here Tim?
“Wow, a business (Uber) is prevented from lowering its prices.. wait.. what? We live in America, right?”
Taxi Drivers, like my mother, earn their income by hard work. It is one thing to have them process credit card and GPS but to come in undercut them is not challenging a status quo. It is bullying an existing industry. Let UBER stay in the premium sedan service. At least Taxi’s, with all their flaw, are unionized and protected.
	

Michael Danielson — July 10th, 2012, 11:42 am

Looks like you all did it! Update on the news article says the vote on Uber has been shelved until sometime this fall.

We’ll need to keep an eye out for it to come back, but this is a big victory. Congratulations, everyone. :)
	

Kenny Tomasian — July 10th, 2012, 11:58 am

I contacted the first five. Let’s keep government out of the way and focus on serving the people. Thanks Tim, for going to bat for innovators!
	

Grant — July 10th, 2012, 12:19 pm

Done. Hope this helps.
	

TitoB — July 10th, 2012, 12:34 pm

I’am currently in Mexico but Done and Done!
	

David Lyman — July 10th, 2012, 12:45 pm

Good work, Tim! I just called Chairman Mendelson’s office and was told they struck the minimum. If that turns out to not be the case, please be sure to repost.
	

Kristine — July 10th, 2012, 12:52 pm

Hi,

I just spoke with Doug at Vincent Orange’s office (3:50 pm EST) he said the minimum fare thing was struck down today, but will likely be revisited in the fall.
	

Jared — July 10th, 2012, 12:56 pm

Here’s hoping my say from Canada will help get this ridiculousness out of our world in general.

Jared
	

Joe A. — July 10th, 2012, 12:58 pm

Yo I’m not sure how necessary the Tim Ferris armada was in shooting this down. Sounded like Uber DC customers were uber pissed.

Regardless, well done!
	

Joe A. — July 10th, 2012, 1:01 pm

Tim, I’m curious… what do you think of Michael Ellsberg’s article on the ADA using state legislatures to limit competition in nutrition counseling?

Wow, these last 24 hours I didn’t realize how actively bigger companies or corporations are in squashing competition. Shows you how fucked politics is these days (always has been?). all about that dolla dolla bill yall.

http://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelellsberg/2012/07/10/american_dietetic_association_2/
	

LIONEL — July 10th, 2012, 1:09 pm

DEAR TIM

I am from France, and really appreciate everything you do as someone who create big values and innovation, and the way you inspired me and probably huge lot of people all around the world

no need to say how important you are for a change in modern entreprenor Life education

Unfortunatly I do not get everything on the matter, cause maybe my english is not enough good to understand what is going on here in every details

but I am talking here for a lot of French or no english native speakers that probably are in your side, but like me do not really understand the whole process involved, but in the same time surely would show you all the respect and the esteem they have for you, to feel encouraged enough, to boost you enough for finding the strengh and the ‘je ne sais quoi’ that will make the difference now for you to win your battle here

best regards from south of France
and thank you Tim for who you are

Lionel T
(newbie)
	

Luke — July 10th, 2012, 1:12 pm

Same funny business happens here half way around the world but we are working on solution for innovation to out maneuver the protected taxi industry.

You’ve highlighted an industry which is so dynamic and changing at the moment… It’s exciting to be part of

May the little guy & quality win

Corporate CityCar
Sent from Australia
	

Jeff Kavanaugh — July 10th, 2012, 1:18 pm

Done. Emailed ‘em all!
	

Bill Fienberg — July 10th, 2012, 1:23 pm

Hey Tim,

I emailed and tweeted all the DC Council members listed in the post, and one of the council members replied to my tweet. Here’s the conversation.

Bill Fienberg ?@BillFienberg
@JackEvansWard2 Please strike down the MINIMUM FARE language from the Uber Amendment. Are you in favor of innovation or incumbents?

Jack Evans ?@JackEvansWard2
@BillFienberg Proud to have introduced an amendment today preserving the operations of @Uber_DC: http://goo.gl/sLQ00
	

Charles W Bell Jr — July 10th, 2012, 2:47 pm

tim,
called first four. great call to action. great results i see
	

James — July 10th, 2012, 4:35 pm

Awesome to read about the update Tim!
	

Karen G — July 10th, 2012, 4:43 pm

Hi Tim, I am way out of town – Brisbane Australia – but wrote a quick email for what it’s worth supporting your request. Good luck and love the book!
K
	

Shannon McLean — July 10th, 2012, 5:06 pm

I emailed everyone out of respect for Tim as well as this entrepreneur and our country… Or what i would like the values of this country to be. Thank you Tim for sending the email. Feels good to do something when so often we feel our actions and voice do not count. Bravo.


fleisch31 — July 10th, 2012, 5:16 pm

Unfortunately, this type of unjust collusion between government and business occurs in every industry. Before becoming a libertarian, I would have been shocked by such a thing. No longer. The Cato Institute’s blog reports on such things almost daily. I also recommend checking out the awesome work of the Institute for Justice, which is a public interest law firm that runs around the country defending people against such governmental action (like a group of Monks who were prevented from building and selling caskets by the existing funeral homes in their state who got a restrictive licensing law passed) or John Stossel’s latest book, which has a ton of examples of how any government with as much power as ours inevitably gets wielded as a tool of exploitation by special interests.
	

Kevin Neske — July 10th, 2012, 5:52 pm

Doesn’t it feel great to do something like that. David beat goliath. What a good feeling victory!

Not just for UBER, which has an awesome CEO, but for the whole startup community.

This shows the power of one blog post, another time.

And now everybody please enjoy your karma overdose.:-)


David H. — July 10th, 2012, 6:17 pm

It’s fascinating how technology is shaping the socio-political landscape, facilitating voices worldwide as they champion a cause. Reddit recently crowdsourced the funds to put up a billboard denouncing Lamar Smith in his own hometown, who was the main proponent behind the SOPA bill. This is clearly just the tip of the iceberg as more and more people plug in.

Congrats on defeating the amendment guys. Gotta love disruptive technologies- satisfying our innate desire to conquer, while liberating (as opposed to oppressing) the masses. What could be more alluring?
	

CP — July 10th, 2012, 7:14 pm

Before I launch into this, let me say that I have nothing but love for Uber’s services. They’re fantastic, consistent, and reliable, their product rocks. Their DC team is nothing short of amazing, I know them personally and their incredible work warrants praise as well as appreciation.

With that said, I have to say that many people on the web are grossly misinformed as to how this whole Uber thing went down. A hyperbolic letter launched from a CEO of a company to all of his users have cajoled a near social media riot begging for the blood of what many believe are corrupt DC bureaucrats who are supposedly stifling innovation in the city.

Sorry to disappoint guys, but this is simply not the truth.

http://inthecapital.com/2012/07/10/why-you-should-all-be-confused-on-the-uberdc-issue/

A few facts:

Uber and Councilmember Cheh (the one who drafted the amendment) had been working collaboratively on this amendment for a while to come to a consensus as to how they would keep this scrappy startup running in the city.

Councilmember Cheh was also the first to come to Uber’s aid when the DC Taxi Commission attempted to shut them down, drafting a stirring letter to Ron Linton to allow the innovative livery service to continue operating in the city.

Since that clash in Jan/Feb, the two have been working on amending city tax laws to create a new subset/category of transportation services that Uber can fit into. They are not technically a taxi service, therefore are not required to go through the same regulation process of one. They are considered a livery/limousine service in the city, therefore they require a certain price point as to not directly compete with other taxis. Okay, makes sense.

Considering Uber was in the loop for this amendment, it makes little to no sense that they would email a letter the DAY BEFORE the hearing in protest rather than weeks before to effectively open discourse and dialogue with the city. I suppose social media and the denizens who lurk on Twitter looking for a cause are best used five minutes to midnight, something Travis (Uber’s CEO) hedged his bets on appropriately.

Uber’s UberX program would drive prices so low they would be competing with local taxis, which is fine. Disruption = awesome. I’m all about a free market and having a better service/product rise to the top on it’s merits, but I also believe in due process and regulation. Uber had not gone through the same vetting process that many of these taxi services have, since they are still considered a livery service and not a taxi company. It’s like a doctor jumping from one specialty to another without applying for the right licenses, these laws are around for a reason. With that said, by creating UberX under the umbrella of their limousine classification, they would be circumventing numerous processes and laws that other companies have dished out buko bucks for to run their taxi businesses.

Fair? Yeah, not really.

So at the end of it all, this “dispute” over being forced to maintain a “fixed-price point” is simply the result of mixed messages and warping definitions to circumvent taxi regulations and laws.

Should DC change it’s taxi laws? Hell yes. Taxi services blow in this city, and I should know because I live here. Do I use Uber like crazy? Yes, I love the quality they provide. But this should be done through the right channels with real conversation with city officials.

Was that letter and subsequent social media meltdown necessary or appropriate, especially since it was directed at a woman who saved this company from the brink of being kicked out of the city?

No.

Hell no.

Shady move on Uber’s part, all in the name of launching what could have been a great service had they taken the time to open honest dialogue and not use exaggerations and accusations to agitate the ire of online dummies against a government that’s already had a rough time with corruption.

Not a good look for a startup with a great product, just sayin’.

People of the internet: please educate yourself before you pick up the cause or mantel of some CEO who wrote a stirring letter.
	

Greg Arden — July 11th, 2012, 6:18 am

I believe that this type of un-ethical practice is illegal!

Search Google for the following:

wikipedia – United States antitrust law
wikipedia – Sarbanes–Oxley Act
	

Chris Odell — July 11th, 2012, 12:38 pm

response…

I very much share your enthusiasm for Uber. From the outset, I have wanted to ensure that Uber is able to continue operating legally in the District, and in truth, my amendment was actually meant to do just that. I think innovation is good, and I think that the District-with Captial Bikeshare, car2go, the Circulator, and Uber-is at the forefront of progressive transportation options. I am pleased to report that we were able to work something out that was satisfactory to both Uber and the Council, and I’ll be working to introduce more permanent legislation in the fall.

Thanks for your note.

Regards,

Mary


Daniel Kislyuk — July 11th, 2012, 12:39 pm

Got an extensive answer from the council member Mary Cheh. According to it they have reached the consesus with Uber and are working towards permanent solution to be made in the fall.
	

Joseph — July 11th, 2012, 1:14 pm

Response from Mary Cheh,

I very much share your enthusiasm for Uber. From the outset, I have wanted to ensure that Uber is able to continue operating legally in the District, and in truth, my amendment was actually meant to do just that. I think innovation is good, and I think that the District—with Captial Bikeshare, car2go, the Circulator, and Uber—is at the forefront of progressive transportation options. I am pleased to report that we were able to work something out that was satisfactory to both Uber and the Council, and I’ll be working to introduce more permanent legislation in the fall.

Thanks for your note.

Regards,

Mary
	

    Isobel — July 11th, 2012, 2:22 pm

    I got the same response from Mary :)
   	

Peter — July 12th, 2012, 8:42 am

Just received the same response from Cheh as well. Nice to receive one.
	

jomar — July 12th, 2012, 9:17 am

mary replied same here
mashable featured this with no mention of us! :)
	

Ben — July 12th, 2012, 9:34 am

I go similar response from Mary.

—–Original Message—–
From: Cheh, Mary (COUNCIL) [mailto:MCheh@DCCOUNCIL.US]
Sent: Wednesday, July 11, 2012 11:06 AM
To: Andrews, Ben B.
Subject: RE: Uber Amendment

I very much share your enthusiasm for Uber. From the outset, I have wanted to ensure that Uber is able to continue operating legally in the District, and in truth, my amendment was actually meant to do just that. I think innovation is good, and I think that the District-with Captial Bikeshare, car2go, the Circulator, and Uber-is at the forefront of progressive transportation options. I am pleased to report that we were able to work something out that was satisfactory to both Uber and the Council, and I’ll be working to introduce more permanent legislation in the fall.

Thanks for your note.

Regards,

Mary
	

Jeffrey — July 12th, 2012, 11:04 am

I think this company should be able to do what they want. They are setting a higher standard for chauffeured driving in big cities, and things like this should be forcing the cabs to hire people who can actually drive. They shouldn’t be stepped on because they are trying to do something right. Makes me not ever wanna take a cab again.
	

Stijn — July 12th, 2012, 12:07 pm

Got the same response from Cheh:
“I very much share your enthusiasm for Uber. From the outset, I have wanted to ensure that Uber is able to continue operating legally in the District, and in truth, my amendment was actually meant to do just that. I think innovation is good, and I think that the District—with Captial Bikeshare, car2go, the Circulator, and Uber—is at the forefront of progressive transportation options. I am pleased to report that we were able to work something out that was satisfactory to both Uber and the Council, and I’ll be working to introduce more permanent legislation in the fall.

Thanks for your note.

Regards,

Mary”
	

David — July 13th, 2012, 7:25 pm

Yay! Lawn Guyland. :)
	

Jimmy — July 14th, 2012, 2:53 pm

FYI – I just signed up for Uber in DC and plan on using it. It looks like the fight might not be over. There is still talking happening w/ Ms. Chen.

“From: “Cheh, Mary (COUNCIL)”
To:
Sent: Wednesday, July 11, 2012 3:29 PM
Subject: RE: DC COUNCIL VOTES ON THE UBER AMENDMENT

I very much share your enthusiasm for Uber. From the outset, I have wanted to ensure that Uber is able to continue operating legally in the District, and in truth, my amendment was actually meant to do just that. I think innovation is good, and I think that the District—with Captial Bikeshare, car2go, the Circulator, and Uber—is at the forefront of progressive transportation options. I am pleased to report that we were able to work something out that was satisfactory to both Uber and the Council, and I’ll be working to introduce more permanent legislation in the fall.

Thanks for your note.

Regards,

Mary”


Peter — July 18th, 2012, 12:21 pm

FYI, just received this response from Michael Brown:

I am writing to thank you for contacting me and sharing your concerns regarding the Council of the District of Columbia’s proposed amendment mandating a minimum fare price for the Uber Car Service. In fact, I received hundreds of phone calls and over six thousand emails. More importantly, a great deal of the emails were in the form of personal notes from DC residents who have come to rely on Uber’s reliable, clean and professional service.

As you know, I voted against the amendment, as proposed, which would have set a fare minimum upon the sedan service. Instead, I co-sponsored an amendment allowing Uber to operate legally until the Council takes future action.

I believe healthy competition is good for business and as someone who has used Uber’s services, I have personally been satisfied with the product. However, there will be further Council discussions about Uber and their Uber X services and what regulations should be imposed upon them. In the fall, Councilmember Mary Cheh will hold a public roundtable for you to participate. This hearing provides you an opportunity to publicly voice your concerns, and provide valuable input toward the formulation of a final bill for the public vehicle-for-hire service industry in the District of Columbia.

I welcome your attendance at this public hearing. The hearing will be held on September 24, 2012, 11:00 AM, at the John A. Wilson Buildings, 1350 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room 500. Councilmember Mary M Cheh, Chairperson of the Committee on the Environment, Public Works, and Transportation will chair the hearing. The purpose of the hearing will be to discuss innovations in the public vehicle-for-hire industry, the implementation of the Taxicab Service Improvement Amendment Act of 2012, and Bill 19-892, the Sedan Class Amendment Act of 2012.

The Committee invites the public to testify or to submit written testimony, which will be made a part of the official record. Anyone wishing to testify at the hearing should contact Ms. Aukima Benjamin, staff assistant to the Committee, at 202-724-8062, or via e-mail at abenjamin@dccouncil.us. Representatives of organizations will be given a maximum of five (5) minutes for oral presentation and individuals a maximum of three (3) minutes for oral presentations. Witnesses should bring 8 copies of their written testimony and submit a copy of their testimony electronically to abenjamin@dccouncil.us. If you are unable to testify at the hearing, you are encouraged to submit a written statement. Copies of written statements should be submitted either to the Committee on the Environment, Public Works, and Transportation , or to Ms. Nyasha Smith, Secretary of the Council, Room 5, John A. Wilson Building, 1350 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20004.

Also, If you have any other issue you wish to discuss, don’t hesitate to contact me.

Sincerely,

Michael A. Brown
Councilmember At-Large
District of Columbia


james — July 26th, 2012, 10:23 am

I want Uber to succeed as everybody here, lobbying in this country is alive and well and this is a fine example how politics is creating a sluggish economy. In a time when new an innovative ways are exactly what we need to keep our economy moving forward, so one day soon we (the American people) don’t find ourselves in a second rate country where China an India are where you will find innovative sprites thriving, while here we focus on ways protect our falling industries rather than promote new ones. We should be all ashamed to let the elected bodies rule for the few while they where appointed to serve the 