
    
    Updated July 23, 2012, 7:10 p.m. ET

Colorado Suspect Is Silent at His Hearing

    
By CAROLINE PORTER And KRISTINA PETERSON

The Colorado theater shooting suspect made his first court appearance with a dazed expression and bright orange hair. Steve Eder has details and what's next in James Holmes's legal journey. Photo: AP.

CENTENNIAL, Colo.—The alleged gunman in the shooting spree that killed 12 and wounded 58 others at a cinema appeared in court here Monday, his hair dyed a reddish orange, and seemed to be drifting off as lawyers began to discuss his fate.



Lisa Damiani, a lawyer for the family of alleged gunman James Holmes, takes questions at a news conference in San Diego. Ms. Damiani said Mr. Holmes's relatives are standing by him.



A mourner visits the site of 12 crosses in Aurora, Colo., Monday that represent those killed in last week's mass shooting.

Carol Chambers, the district attorney for Colorado's 18th Judicial District, said after the hearing that prosecutors may seek the death penalty against suspect James Holmes but first want to discuss the matter with the wounded and families of those killed in the mass shooting in Aurora, a Denver suburb, last week. She said a decision may take several months.

Pursuing the death penalty is "a very long process that impacts their lives for years," Ms. Chambers said of victims. Prosecutors rarely seek the death penalty in Colorado, which has had one execution, in 1997, since capital punishment was reinstated in 1976, according to the Colorado Department of Corrections. Three people are currently on death row in the state.

Mr. Holmes didn't appear to speak during Monday's initial hearing but looked alternately sleepy and wide-eyed, bobbing his head as the judge and lawyers spoke. Ms. Chambers, at a news conference, said she didn't know if he had been medicated.

No charges were entered during the hearing, which dealt with preliminary issues such as informing the suspect of his constitutional rights in the case and a motion to limit pretrial publicity. The judge approved a gag order that may limit the release of some information by law-enforcement authorities. Aurora police said in a statement that they hadn't seen the order but would avoid releasing much information until they see what is allowed.







Prosecutors plan to enter formal charges during a second hearing next Monday. Mr. Holmes is being held in isolation in an Arapahoe County jail after being arrested on suspicion of crimes including first-degree murder.

He was apprehended outside the scene of the shooting early Friday at a screening of the latest Batman movie, wearing body armor and in possession of firearms including an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle.

Twenty-two of Friday's shooting victims remained hospitalized Monday, 10 of them in critical condition, according to hospitals.

A public defender representing Mr. Holmes left the courtroom through a back door and wasn't available to comment.

Mr. Holmes, 24, a doctoral student in neuroscience, withdrew from the University of Colorado Denver on June 10, three days after key oral exams, the university said Monday, adding that he didn't complete the paperwork or explain the reason for his withdrawal.

Police have said Mr. Holmes got dozens of deliveries at school and at home, including ammunition used in the attack; school officials said they didn't keep records of any packages Mr. Holmes received directly.

In San Diego, where Mr. Holmes's parents live, a lawyer for his family read a statement clarifying a quotation from his mother, Arlene Holmes, when she was awakened early Friday with news of the shooting. Some had interpreted her comments to mean that she wasn't surprised he was involved.
Victims' Bios



When Ms. Holmes told a reporter, "Yes you have the right person," she was referring to herself, not her son, according to the statement.

The family lawyer, Lisa Damiani, declined to comment on Mr. Holmes's mental state or his relationship with his family. But they are standing by him, she said.

After the hearing in Centennial, about 15 miles south of Aurora, David Sanchez, 53, said he came to the courthouse to support his daughter Katie and son-in-law Caleb Medley, who was hospitalized in critical condition after he was shot in the head. The couple attended the movie dressed in Batman costumes. Mr. Sanchez said his daughter, who wasn't seriously injured, was in the hospital because she was due to give birth Monday.

"That would be justice being served for him to get the death penalty," Mr. Sanchez said.
—Steve Eder, Erica E. Phillips and Shelly Banjo contributed to this article.