
Comentários (sem censura)

by Paulo Coelho on July 21, 2012



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



A.Guaranis July 26, 2012 at 8:42 am

    Bendiciones al Padre Team
    Angel.

   Elena July 26, 2012 at 7:58 am

    Dicono che l’attesa aumenti il desiderio…posso confermare che è vero :) Vola in Italia Manuscrito :)

    Buonissima giornata caro Paulo,
    with love

    Elena

   Adriana July 25, 2012 at 9:57 pm

    Enhorabuena por el lanzamiento oficial del Manuscrito el día de hoy. Deseándote sólo lo mejor y esperando poder leerlo pronto.
    Con mucho amor
    Adriana

   Marie-Christine July 25, 2012 at 1:57 pm

    Have the best launching ever Paulo
    Keep on smiling :)
    With love
    Marie-Christine

   Marcia Nascimento July 24, 2012 at 9:15 pm

    Meu querido escritor Paulo Coelho,
    O manuscrito encontrado em Accra, e um livro especial do começo ao fim.Uma obra prima tão primorosa quanto o Alquimista. Relata valores anos esquecidos pela humanidade. Obrigada Paulo por vc ter nos relembrando de conceitos tão valiosos para uma viver em harmonia com nos mesmos e compartilhar energias positivas com o próximo. Muito sucesso beijocas

  Marie-Christine July 24, 2012 at 7:59 pm

    The first chapter has whetted my appetite for what has to come.
    There is so much packed into it.
    It is the kind of book that you will refer to time and time again,
    The ups and downs of daily life occurrences and how we deal with it,.
    the importance of these experiences and the knowledge we have acquired will make us I believe a better person.
    Also Paulo you made the point about the importance of nature how we can learn so much from it by observing it and learning invaluable lessons from it,by reminding us that we are also part of it and we need to respect it.
    I like that section describing the mountain and the seasons.

    Can a man who has been training for years to climb the highest mountain in the world feels defeated when he arrives at the summit and finds that nature has covered it in the snowstorm?
    The man says about the mountain:
    You don’t want me now, but the time is going to change and in a day I will be able to climb to the top. During this time, you continue then to wait for me.
    Can a young when he is rejected by his first love claims that love does not exist?
    The young says to himself:
    I will find someone able to understand what I am feeling. And I will be happy for the rest of my life.

    THERE IS NO VICTORY NOR DEFEAT IN THE NATURAL CYCLE. THERE IS MOVEMENT.

    The winter fights to rule supreme but at the end of it, it is forced to accept the victory of Spring, who brings with it flowers and joy.
    The Summer loves to extend its hot days forever because it is convinced that the heat brings benefit to the Earth. But it will end up accepting the Autumn’s arrival that will allow the ground to rest.
    The gazelle eats the grass and is eaten alive by the lion.
    No one is interested in who is the strongest, only stages that needs to be respected when the HUMAN BEING”S HEART UNDERSTANDS THIS HE BECOMES FREE. He accepts without any second thoughts the difficult times and does not get misled by the moment of glory.

    I have translated that chapter I can I forward it to you I enjoyed doing it. I have learned a lot from it.
    Thank you for being
    With love
    Marie-Christine

    Belina July 24, 2012 at 2:43 pm

    É um livro maravilhoso, que nos tranquiliza e nos incentiva a seguir adiante, pois, nos dá conhecimento e consequentemente a segurança para agir.

   Maritza Guevara July 24, 2012 at 2:32 pm

    esperando con ansia este nuevo libro igual que cada uno de los anteriores….

   roberto July 24, 2012 at 4:51 am

    aun sin estrenar y revisando los comentarios recibimos con entusiasmo y delicada espera un libro mas de Paulo, excelente escritor, una vision mas del fondo y no tan solo la forma de las cosas, muchas felicidades; enhorabuena, Bienvenido “Manuscrito encontrado en Accra”

   Cristina July 23, 2012 at 1:42 pm

    Li o livro e amei. Uma leitura simples, dinamica, agradavel. Com as lembranças dos ensinamentos que todos nós conhecemos, mas, esquecemos na luta diária. E o Paulo Coelho nos relembra com tanto amor compartilhado atraves do seu dom. Obrigada querido Paulo, e Deus abençoe voce, sua vida, sua familia!

  
