
Two charged in murder of teen whose body was found in bag
Affidavit: Horrific attack on 19-year-old Carina Saunders of Okla. caught on video


OKLAHOMA CITY — Two men were charged Monday in the death of an Oklahoma woman whose dismembered body was found in a duffel bag behind a grocery store last year.

   

Jimmy Massey and Luis Ruiz were being held without bond at the Oklahoma County jail. The Oklahoma County District Attorney's office charged them with first-degree murder in the October killing of 19-year-old Carina Saunders. Her body was discovered in a duffel bag spotted by animal welfare workers as they rounded up feral cats in Bethany, an Oklahoma City suburb.

The medical examiner's office has said Saunders died a violent death, but has not disclosed details.

Massey was already in custody on a drug-related charge. An attorney listed as having represented him in his drug case, Mitch Solomon, did not return a message seeking comment.

A jailer said she had no information about whether Ruiz had retained an attorney to represent him.

Affidavit: Attack caught on video
According to an affidavit, a witness told Bethany police she and Saunders went to a house in south Oklahoma City, where Ruiz beat Saunders and tied her up. The witness said Ruiz dragged Saunders to an upstairs room, tied her to a table and cut off her left foot. She said he also tried to cut off her right foot, but the saw broke.

Full coverage of U.S. news on NBCNews.com

That witness jumped out of a window to escape, the affidavit stated.

Another witness told police someone told her the killing had been recorded on Ruiz's cellphone. She said she was with Ruiz in a hotel in May, looked at his phone while he was in the bathroom, saw video of the killing and recognized Ruiz as the person who was cutting off Saunders' foot, according to the affidavit.

Another affidavit stated that Massey told police he was present when Saunders was killed and saw it happen. But police say he told another jail inmate that he was actually involved in the killing and provided details that only police and the medical examiner's office would know.

Bethany Police Chief Phil Cole has said Saunders' killing was tied to human trafficking, prostitution and a drug ring.