
In Depth | 24 July 2012
Generation HIV: Growing up under a shadow of infection
By Madhumita Venkataramanan





Pioneering young adults who have battled the infection since birth are giving scientists the first ever chance to understand what growing up with the virus really means.

Tanya is a spirited 22-year-old with dark, cropped hair, a penchant for body art, and a secret. On a chilly October afternoon, she sits at a round wooden table in a knitting shop in New York City and shows off her latest tattoo. Her companion, a 56-year-old nurse practitioner named Susan Ledlie, examines the design and grins, pulling up her sleeve to display her own.  

Ledlie and Tanya (name changed) are an unlikely pair. Ledlie, a plump older white woman with a brisk maternal air, teaches graduate nursing at Molloy College in Long Island, New York, since retiring from her job as a nurse practitioner in 2010. Tanya, young and black with a cavalier attitude towards adulthood, grew up with her grandmother in Brooklyn, NY and wants to be a hairdresser. Yet the two have been close friends for 16 years. In 1995, when Tanya was six years old, her grandmother took her to Ledlie’s clinic in Brooklyn. Tanya had HIV. She had become infected at birth when she came in contact with her mother’s blood, and was diagnosed soon after.

“The first time I saw Susan, I remember I had to get my shots for school,” says Tanya. “I was kicking and pushing Susan and she had to bring three other doctors in to hold me down.” From that day forward, Ledlie saw Tanya at least once a month, as her primary Aids care provider - a role that included prescribing drugs, doing regular medical checkups and providing teenage counselling. “Visits became like a family thing,” Tanya laughs.

Ledlie’s role was almost unthinkable three decades ago. In June 1981, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported the first known case of what would eventually become known as Aids. Just a year later doctors began to diagnose the disease in children. Initially, they were treated with zidovudine - the first antiretroviral medicine designed to treat HIV - or nothing at all. During these early years of relevant ignorance about the disease, 45% of HIV-positive children died before their tenth birthdays. “We were focused on pain relief and comfort, without any thoughts about the child’s future,” says George Siberry, an adolescent HIV expert at the US National Institutes of Health.

But in the years since Tanya was diagnosed, there has been a dramatic shift in what it means to be born HIV-positive, particularly in western countries. Today, babies born to mothers infected with HIV receive anti-HIV medication within hours of birth and are not breast-fed so as to avoid passing the virus from mother to child. As a result, fewer than two babies in every 100 born to HIV-positive mothers in the US and Europe become infected with the virus. With treatment, 95% of kids now reach the age of 10. “Since antiretroviral therapy, we’ve showed they can live well into adulthood, although we don’t know for how long,” says Siberry.
