23 July 2012 Last updated at 22:58 ET

Science graduates 'lack skills needed by business'
 
By Judith Burns Education reporter BBC News

Universities are not producing enough science graduates with the skills needed by UK industry, a report says.

The Lords Science and Technology Committee calls for immediate action to boost student numbers in science, technology, engineering and maths at undergraduate and postgraduate level.

Too many students start science courses with weak maths skills, it says.

Report chairman Lord Willis said he was "gobsmacked" by figures which showed few who had studied maths beyond GCSE.

The report notes that the government's Plan for Growth attached great importance to education and the hi-tech industry to create jobs and prosperity.
Skill shortage

But it highlights a lack of key skills which extends from too few young people studying maths beyond GCSE to too few students taking postgraduate degrees in science, technology, engineering and maths (Stem) subjects.

The sub-committee that produced the report said they were shocked that so many Stem undergraduates did not have A-level mathematics.

The figures showed that around 70% of biology undergraduates, 38% of chemistry and economics undergraduates and 10% of engineering students did not have A-level maths.

The report team even found evidence that even an A* in A-level mathematics was no guarantee that students would be able to cope with a university science course.

Lord Willis said: "When you have a university like Cambridge saying that even with an A* in mathematics we are having to give remedial maths in order to study engineering there is something not quite right if we are going to produce the very best to compete with the world.

"In reality the quality of the Stem graduates coming out of universities does not meet the requirements of industry and in fact is ultimately not even likely to meet the requirements of academia."

The report says that, without action, the government risks failing to meet its objective of driving economic growth through education and hi-tech industries.

It recommends that maths should be compulsory for all students after 16 and calls for universities to toughen their maths requirements for entry to Stem courses and to get more involved in the school maths curriculum.

Sir William Wakeham of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a specialist adviser to the committee, said the pharmaceutical industry in particular needed biology graduates with good statistical skills to analyse the effects of new drugs.

The report also urges universities to improve the quality of their own teaching and to involve industry in the content of Stem courses to ensure graduates are employable.
'Soft' sciences

The committee raises concerns that graduates of "soft" sciences such as forensic or sport science are less employable than those with degrees in traditional subjects like chemistry.

Despite this, the report says the number of UK students taking "soft" sciences has soared. Graduates in sport science, for example, more than doubled to more than 8,000 between 2003 and 2010.

During the same period, the number of engineering graduates fell by 3% to 12,080 and of computer science graduates by 27% to 11,400.

The report says the government is not doing enough to attract bright students to postgraduate Stem courses.

It suggests that recent reforms to university finances and student funding, together with controls on overseas students, could weaken the quality and number of postgraduate courses at UK universities.

The government said: "Every sector of the economy relies on universities to produce highly skilled graduates.

"The numbers of Stem students are going up, and application rates remain strong. The Government are committed to building on this. We have protected science funding, and are now working with employers and universities to ensure people get the skills the country needs."



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



391. Britainsnotpleased 
24TH JULY 2012 - 19:58
Having graduated with a real science degree some years ago , I can understand why students are either not taking science or have not got maths as a A level. I did teacher training and found some science teachers actually did not understand the subject they were teaching. This is all a result of the poor wages paid to science graduates. I now work as a chemist and earn around £21K after 15 years


 
+20
Comment number 276. Dr G 
24TH JULY 2012 - 15:48
I graduated with a PhD in protein chemistry 6 years ago,briefly flirted with banks but decided to stay in science. The practical up shot of this is that took my first job with a US company and have never looked back. Back in europe now, but wouldn't dream of working in the UK. Having done the 'brain drain' thing i suppose i am part of the problem, that said, i won't stay where i am not appreciated


 
+29
Comment number 224. Anonymous Please 
24TH JULY 2012 - 15:00
I am a senior neuroscientist. Most young scientists can put up with long hours, low pay compared to other technical professions, the UK's culture of disrespect for science, and even the mind-numbing bureaucracy so prevalent in organizations. They can't put up with temporary contracts. The UK needs more STEM jobs, not more STEM graduates. Get the career paths sorted and the students will follow.


 
+12
Comment number 207. disgruntled 
24TH JULY 2012 - 14:43
As a recent engineering graduate I would not advise anyone to take an engineering or science degree. Poor pay, no respect, no job security and as a result of this no job satisfaction.

If the government wants more STEM graduates then give us something to look forward to. Give us the power to work with companies to improve our conditions because just now we have no power and are treated as dirt.


 
+40
Comment number 155. Wavy finger 
24TH JULY 2012 - 13:39
I graduated computing science about 6 years ago. Skills in development are just not valued highly enough by businesses. I used to see non-educated blaggers earning more than I was in sales or director roles, all they do is shake hands with other blaggers. Doesnt make it attractive to students when all they can hope for is a 35k a year job. Especially when they have to spend 9k a year on uni!
