
17
July
2012
Luv It Frozen Custard, Las Vegas
Note: The steroids are still in my system, and consequently I am still talking about food. And Vegas. Bear with me, kids.

-

I am a 31-year-old woman of reasonable intelligence (even after my brain surgery, I feel this latter comment is safe to say). I would like to think that most of my tastes are fairly sophisticated. I can enjoy a decent glass of scotch. I appreciate liver pate. I think Woody Allen is funny and still sort-of-relevant.

But despite all of that, I have a confession: I really like rainbow sprinkles.

Whenever there is an opportunity to add rainbow sprinkles to something, I do, even though I realize that it makes whatever I’m eating look like it was crafted by either Dr. Seuss characters or a slumber party’s worth of 9-year-olds.

Chocolate sprinkles aren’t bad, either. I’ll take them in a pinch. But really, I’m a sucker for the rainbow variety.

There is literally even a brand of sprinkles with my name on it.

Here’s the rub, though: despite the fact that I insist on adding those little rods of color to nearly every sundae I’ve had the privilege of concocting, they rarely add epicureal merit to my dessert. They’re often chalky or waxy and almost certainly tasteless (how can you not taste of sugar when that is WHAT YOU ARE MADE OF? Answer me that, sprinkles.), and they embed themselves into every depression and curve of your molars so that you finally have to jam your finger back there and dig them out.

Why, then, do I show such dedication to such  a sub-par ice cream topping? Because they’re pretty. And because, on rare occasion, you may happen to come across really, really good sprinkles. Crunchy accents of sugary deliciousness studding a creamy confection – it makes you feel like you are a fourth-grader all over again (minus the bullying or awkwardness).  Those good sprinkles, those transcendental few, make putting up with all the waxy-mediocrity worth it.

On a hot day in Vegas a few months back, Rand found a small frozen custard shop downtown – Luv-It Frozen Custard. Its reviews said it was some of the best around.

What they did not add, and what I feel is a bigger claim to fame is this: they have friggin excellent sprinkles.

Like, HOLY-CRAP-THESE-ARE-DELICIOUS-WHY-DON’T-I-PUT-SPRINKLES-ON-EVERYTHING good.

-

The frozen custard isn’t bad, either (if you are wondering what makes frozen custard distinct from ice cream, it’s the addition of egg yolks). A rich, smooth soft-serve, it’s so dense that when you dip your spoon in your confection, you have to hold onto the styrofoam cup firmly, or you’ll lift the whole thing straight up, and your entire sundae will dangle from your spoon.

They make a variety of flavors, but only a very select few are offered on any given day, along with the staples of chocolate and vanilla. There are plenty of toppings and sundae variants, though, for those wanting to customize their treat. Rand got bananas, caramel, and chocolate sprinkles on his.

I can feel my teeth rotting while just looking at this. It was wonderful.

-

If you are anything like me, you may panic slightly at the sheer wealth of options before you.

And if that happens, just go with sprinkles.

We stood in the parking lot, the sun fading behind us, and ate our ice cream. We could hear the incremental screams from one of those ridiculous amusement-park-style rides from the Strip in the background. You know the ones: perched on top of a hotel roof, they drag poor, drunken fools up with a complex system of pulleys, their legs dangling below, and then drop them unceremoniously towards the earth.  They are inevitably called the Stratosphere or the Orbiter or the Vomiter or something to the effect. Over and over again we heard the sound of the pulleys, a brief moment of silence, and then their (hopefully) delighted shouts.

They screamed. We ate ice cre … er, frozen custard (damn it. I was hoping I could make that play on words work).

And one of us – I’m not saying who – might have gotten some of the sticky dessert in her hair (You can tell it was me, can’t you?) And then proceeded to whine about it, and used said whine as a justification for eating half of Rand’s ice cream, too.

-

And guess what? The chocolate sprinkles weren’t bad, either.

—————

Tips for Visiting Luv-It Frozen Custard in Las Vegas:

They are cash only, so come prepared. Take a cab or drive (they have ample parking) as you can’t really walk here. Don’t be too discouraged by the long line – we managed to avoid it, but one formed almost immediately after we got our treats. There is no seating, so instead you’ll have to stand in the shade of their generous awning, and take care that the hot, dry Vegas wind doesn’t blow your hair straight into your dessert.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





17. Jul, 2012 / Suchitra says:

aren’t u glad u did not marry someone like joey from “friends”?….joey does not share food!!!

17. Jul, 2012 / Andrea says:

Oh sprinkles, when I lived in Germany I ate those Dutch chocolate sprinkles every morning! It grosses me out now, but I would have buttered white bread with chocolate sprinkles smashed onto them almost everyday, along with the family I lived with at the time. The memory only makes me a little ashamed, but mostly…it makes me want chocolate sprinkles.

17. Jul, 2012 / Natasha McEachron says:

Well I’ve learned something today. I got an ice cream machine along with a few recipe books for my birthday last year and noticed some ice cream bases used egg yolks while others didn’t. I just thought either version would be considered ice cream.

And now I’m really in the mood for some ice cream (or frozen custard).

17. Jul, 2012 / Debra says:

I am 100% the same way. If there is a free topping it is always sprinkles. I dont know if I like the way it looks, or if it is the crunchy texture mixed in with the creamy ice ceam or just a hopeless adiction at this point. Ive even put it on funnel cake. All this talk makes me want to hunt down a FroYo truck and get some sprinkles.

17. Jul, 2012 / Brooke says:

I love this post! You pretty much described my conversation with my boyfriend the other night. I was so overwhelmed with all the custard flavors, that i just went with my staple, vanilla with rainbow sprinkles. Everytime I get soft serve i always manage to walk away with rainbow sprinkles. I can’t help it.

17. Jul, 2012 / Jenny says:

Have you tried Peaks Frozen Custard in Seattle? They have indoor seating so you don’t have to worry about dessert hair. Also, they have good (not chalky) sprinkles.

17. Jul, 2012 / Tara says:

I don’t tolerate dairy very well, but sometimes I can’t help myself if there are sprinkles involved. I recently discovered one of those pay-by-the-ounce self serve yogurt joints and realized that I can set my own sprinkle-to-yogurt ratio and just get a dab of yogurt with alot of sprinkles on top. Also, festive cookies with colorful icing and sprinkles. Can’t pass those up.

17. Jul, 2012 / Ian says:

Reading this post while you’re hungry is a taunt. Especially the picture of the banana-caramel sundae. My mouth literally started watering.

17. Jul, 2012 / Philip says:

You’ll have to come over for breakfast some time. Kiddo invented a new breakfast food comprising milk, bread, sugar and three kinds of sprinkles (chocolate, confetti, and rainbow). Seriously, you two need to hang out.

17. Jul, 2012 / Hannah says:

Seriously, this is the kind of stuff that makes me jealous I was born in England and not the USA. Damn it, you guys get all the good food – we get spotted dick with custard (I kid you not http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spotted_dick), and you guys get frozen custard with rainbow sprinkles. In true British slang, I’m well jel.


17. Jul, 2012 / Hihankara says:

I got rainbow sprinkles on my ice cream when we were in Belize (unexpectedly!) and was absurdly excited. I can totally relate to this. :)


17. Jul, 2012 / Jenny says:

I have to say that my husband is the exact same way. He LOVES to get rainbow sprinkles on his ice cream and yogurt (and custard obviously!). I always thought they tasted like crunchy nothings so now next time we hit up Vegas we will have to head here to try out these colorful delights.

18. Jul, 2012 / curty wyshart says:

Oh great, now everyone knows about Luv-it Custard! That place has literally been there 50 years. Kids would cruise up and down Fremont(before they put a roof over it) in their hot rods. Then we would meet at Luv-its’ to hang out. Kinda like American Graffiti if it had been directed by Martin Scorsese.

18. Jul, 2012 / vesper says:

Bingo! I always tried to explain that gelato is in the end a custard that was frozen and churned (I am Italian) getting tsk tsks from my friends: but now I have proof thet frozen custard exists!

20. Jul, 2012 / Lindsey says:

Also obsessed with rainbow sprinkles … and constantly getting made fun of for ordering the same ice cream that 5 year olds love! Oh well, nothing anyone can do to stop me.

