Puerto Rico~ Part 2: Around the Island in a Day!

In this second installment of our Puerto Rico adventure, we are going to highlight wonderful places to visit outside the main city. These are all lovely locations for a short day trip and they are sure to deepen your love and curiosity for the island of Puerto Rico!

We decided to get out of San Juan and drive around the island to discover some destinations off of the beaten path! Here are a few of our suggestions...


El Yunque National Forest:

"El Yunque" is a very lush and beautiful rainforest located within the Luquillo Mountains. Many new species of plant and animal that are native to Puerto Rico have been discovered here. It is also the only tropical rainforest in the U.S. National Forest system. It's easily accessible by car as there is a main road that goes right through the heart of the forest, leading adventurers through a series of photo-ops and rest stops. There are also a variety of eco-tours and zip-line adventures for those who would like a closer look. You can visit this jewel from 7:30am-6:00pm daily.


The Arecibo Observatory:

This, interestingly enough, is the world's largest radiotelescope! What's a radiotelescope? Basically, it's operates like sonar. They send out radio waves and whatever they bounce off of in space is recorded back at this facility. From the information they receive, scientists can reconstruct the object as a 3D image. Pretty cool...oh and this is also a spot where the movie "Contact" filmed, and they sell astronaut ice cream! Interested yet? It's a huge radio dish on the side of a mountain for crying out loud! That tremendous feat in construction should be enough to peak some interest! Hours vary, but are usually from 9am-4pm Mon-Sun.

The City of Ponce:


Ponce is one of those places that we visit every time we come to Puerto Rico. It's another quaint, European-inspired city on the island. Some major points of interest are the Museo de Arte de Ponce, and the Parque de Bombas. The art museum is lovely! The pieces they have in their collection are surprising and beautiful. They also recently expanded to showcase contemporary art as well as the traditional pieces they have on permanent display. The museum grounds are beautiful and newly renovated. A must see for the casual and seasoned art enthusiast! 

The Parque de Bombas is a famous fire station on the island. Now, it houses a fire-fighting museum, but it used to be the main firehouse for the city. The building is famous for it's unique look. It is very distinct and some say it's the most recognizable piece of architecture on the island. It certainly is one of a kind! The area surrounding the station is a lively place, complete with a plaza, the Ponce Cathedral, and various markets and shops to peruse.


Rio Camuy Caves Park:

This place is really gorgeous! We were extremely excited to visit this site! This is one of the largest cave systems in the world, and you don't have to be a professional cave-diver to see it! There is even an awesome audio guide that makes the experience unforgettable. These ancient caverns really remind you that nature is truly amazing. This is one of the most beautiful places on the island, hands down! They only take 1,500 visitors daily, so be sure to check with them before making the drive!


Bacardi Rum Distillery:

Okay, we're not alcoholics or anything. Heck, we don't even favor rum! But, you can't miss this activity! Bacardi, San Juan is the world's largest rum distillery. The tour is free, you get free cocktails and the grounds are impressive. Did you hear the part about free everything? And the tour is extensive! You learn all about the process of making Bacardi rum, the history behind it's founding and even have the chance to walk through a full-scale replica of the very first Bacardi distillery! It's really interesting and informative, if you're curious about how rum, particularly Bacardi rum, is made. We drove here in a rental car so the trek wasn't that stressful, but if you are coming from Old San Juan without a car, you might have to hop on a ferry to enjoy this site!


Well, those are our top spots to visit outside of Old San Juan! Puerto Rico is vast in what it has to offer the traveler, but easily accessible since it's a small island. If you do plan to visit, there are sure to be activities and sites that will appeal to everyone in your party! It truly is an island of enchantment...

Check out our video!

Nutty Nomads: Puerto Rico! (Part 2)

 



