Phone-Hacking Charges Seen as Chill on British Journalism
By JOHN F. BURNS
Published: July 24, 2012

LONDON — To many in Britain, the prosecutors’ decision on Tuesday to lay criminal charges against eight of the most prominent figures in British tabloid journalism over the past decade was a dramatic step toward exacting accountability for the tangled web of wrongdoing in Rupert Murdoch’s London newsrooms.




But with trials pending for those now charged with conspiracy in the phone-hacking scandal — Andy Coulson, Prime Minister David Cameron’s former communications director; Rebekah Brooks, the handpicked boss of Mr. Murdoch’s British newspaper empire until she resigned a year ago; five senior editors and reporters at the now-defunct, Murdoch-owned News of the World; and a private investigator — the wider implications are increasingly pressing in.

What is becoming clear, media analysts say, is that the push-the-legal-limits newsroom culture that has gone untrammeled for years at the British tabloids and has even found its way into some of the country’s upmarket broadsheets, including Mr. Murdoch’s Times and Sunday Times, could be a casualty of a new culture of caution.

The indictments did not surprise executives at News Corporation, the New York media conglomerate that owns the British papers, who are readying the split of the company’s newspapers from its more lucrative entertainment assets. The charges, in part, played into the timing of Mr. Murdoch’s finally agreeing to the split, which his top lieutenants had proposed for years, a person familiar with the thinking at the company said.

“You don’t get an indictment like this without a lot of preliminary discussions,” said this person, who could not comment on the record about private discussions. “They knew exactly, exactly what was coming and how bad it would look.”

Already, some who work at British newspapers say, the scandal has had a chilling effect on newsrooms, with editors, reporters and their proprietors less eager to trumpet splashy exposes that might involve, or be perceived to involve, less than ethical standards of news gathering.

One tabloid journalist, who insisted on anonymity because of concern for his job, lamented what he called the end of the “anything goes” era. “Before, it was a case of ‘Don’t tell me how you get it, just get it,’ ” he said. “Now things are looked at differently.”

With the announcement of charges on Tuesday, prosecutors have shown a new willingness to pursue criminal cases against editors and reporters accused of seeking to gather information through means that were for years winked at as unsavory but tolerable, at least for Britain: paying the police and public figures for scoops, and hacking into cellphone voice messages of politicians, celebrities and other people in the news for the salacious gossip that is the currency of mass-circulation dailies.

Mr. Coulson and Ms. Brooks, both former editors of The News of the World, and the six others charged on Tuesday face possible prison terms of up to two years if convicted. All eight have vigorously denied the charges, with some suggesting that they are the victims of public and political hysteria, and have vowed to fight the indictments in court.

Few in Britain have not been shocked by the revelations that have tumbled out of the scandal in the past year: not just the industrial-scale phone hacking, but also checkbook journalism that is alleged to have included payments rising into the tens of thousands of dollars to public officials, including police and prison officers, and a cover-up that prosecutors say persisted long after the heat of public anger was focused on the miscreants. Together, prosecutors say, it is a tally of wrongdoing that is likely to yield many more criminal cases in the months ahead.

Media critics say the legacy of the “yellow journalism” of turn-of-the-20th-century America has migrated in recent decades to Fleet Street, the traditional home in London of many of Britain’s most powerful papers. Many editors and reporters nurtured in that culture have migrated abroad, some of them to Murdoch-owned papers in America, Australia and elsewhere, taking their no-holds-barred attitudes with them.

Some critics say Mr. Murdoch’s London tabloids, The Sun and The News of the World, and rivals here that compete for the same scoop-hungry readership of millions, have set a grim and degrading standard of journalism that will not be missed.

But that style of journalism has its defenders, including influential voices who have warned that the opprobrium now focused on the tabloids, and on Mr. Murdoch personally, carries its own risk of excess. In newspaper columns, and in testimony at the public inquiry presided over by Lord Justice Sir Brian Leveson, they have argued against imposing statutory restraints to quiet the tabloids and protect secrets — personal, political and corporate — that only an irreverent press is likely to ferret out. 
