
The Irony of the US Economy in 2010: No Jobs + No One to Hire

by randfish on November 7, 2010

There can be little doubt that the US unemployment rate is at historical highs. The US Labor Department does a good job compiling these statistics (though nuances certainly exist) and Google’s Public Data charts visualize this nicely:



Although many would say the cause of this unemployment stems from economic issues arising from the real estate and banking crises of late 2008, there’s a more insidious problem that’s less apparent – the education and skill level of the unemployed workforce vs. the demand for those skills.

Here in Seattle, WA, unemployment is not much lower than the national average. Thus, a business owner (like yours truly) might reasonably anticipate that finding people to hire will not be terribly challenging. This is where the irony exists. While thousands of workers are unemployed in our city, finding talented, qualified labor that can meet our needs is nigh on impossible.

In the last 18 months, we’ve hired:

• VP of Engineering

• VP of Marketing

• 2 Product/Project Managers

• 5 Senior Engineers (w/ Computer Science backgrounds)

• 2 Customer Service Specialists

• Director of Customer Acquisition & Engagement (Marketing)

None of these roles took less than 60 days of active pursuit, and several took more than 6 months to find and fill. Granted – SEOmoz is picky about who it hires, perhaps obsessively so. But this trend isn’t limited to us. Nearly every startup founder I’ve talked to is actively hiring for multiple positions, as are mid-size and large companies. After all, corporate profits are at a record high and the economy is growing (albeit at a modest 2% in Q3). Yet, unemployment is still a massive problem.

Why is this? How can there be a massive glut of unemployed, desperate-for-work individuals in the same country and the same regions where employers (like us) are equally desperate for talent?

I’d argue that the fault is systemic and institutional.

Businesses are desperate for tech-savvy, information workers with a concentration of talents around programming, computer skills, written communication, marketing/advertising, engineering and other advanced specializations (healthcare/medical, finance, mathematics, etc). These individuals are in short supply.

Meanwhile, millions of workers with skills that don’t fit these needs are starving for work, but can’t find companies that want them.

What could fix this problem?

• Re-training: If the existing unemployed workforce devoted several months to years to training on the necessary skills and knowledge to match their high-tech peers, this could help solve both employers’ needs and the unemployment issue.

• Restoration of Prior Demand: The jobs lost in retail, manufacturing, service industries, etc. could return if businesses decided to re-invest in these spheres in the geographies where they previously existed.

• Government Investment: Many governments (including the US following the great depression) have hired and employed for these positions on infrastructure and growth projects when the private sector didn’t perform.

• Private Investment in Non-Traditional Fields: Although investment dollars are returning to the private sphere, particularly in private equity and venture capital, these dollars are flowing to fields and companies that will compete for the “in-demand” talent not the “under-employed” part of the workforce.

For each of these solultions, there’s significant blockading challenges.

Re-training makes sense on an individual level, but the more established you are in life: familial obligations, skills, economic demands, etc. the harder it is to devote time and resources to learning (which may not pay off in the near future unless you can ramp up extremely quickly and get lucky finding a position). In addition, the ability to get loans for school is tougher than it has been in 20+ years and the cost of post-high school education has skyrocketed. Retraining also won’t help you to network in your new field of choice – often an essential component of finding a position. You already know people and companies in your current niche, but the time to explore, discover, pitch and earn your way into a new one may be just as challenging (or more) than the learning process itself.

Restoring prior demand is possible, but it will take a very long time. Those analyzing the economy’s recovery have noted that productivity is up massively, profits are crushing historic levels and businesses (and the wealthy) are recovering without adding many new positions. All of these suggest that technology, software, automation and productivity improvements are reducing the need to add new people to the workforce. And yet, without higher employment, it’s very tough to stimulate increased consumer demand (which is likely why the current administration has a focus on exports to help grow the US economy).

Government investment makes some sense, and has worked in a number of cases in European and Asian economies (and in the past here in the US). However, the American political landscape is such that this likely won’t be in the consideration set. Data and lessons from history are far less powerful or influential than the narrative in the minds of US voters that “government intervention” and “government spending” are bad (or “evil” or “socialist” which also has terrible branding in the US). It’s certainly possible that additional government spending could have a negative impact if employed unwisely, but even when 90%+ of economists agree on a topic, it’s politics, not facts, that drive government policy.

Private investment is another possibility, but it’s largely thwarted by economics. The high-growth, high-return investments of the last few decades have an extreme concentration in technology-driven companies (regardless of the field) and these firms tend not to need the current group of “underemployed” workers.

So, are we/they screwed?

Although I don’t know the solution, and see barriers to every path, I believe we can innovate our way out of this. Then again, I’m an optimist by profession.

What I do hope is that going forward, parents will put their children on the path to earning the skills necessary to be in what’s currently an elite, under-supplied and overly-demanded workforce. I hope teachers, schools and politicians will recognize where investment is needed vs. not (the US spends the most money per child on education, yet has middling results at best, illustrated in the chart below):


I hope the US can get a bit less ideological about policy (which is probably the most unlikely scenario) and finally, I’d love to see more businesses and investors putting money into sectors where the workforce is plentiful and lower cost (Zappos would be a prime example).

p.s. Many of the comments have focused on low compensation as being a likely cause for our recruiting challenges. While I could imagine this to be partially to blame, I’d point out that we generally pay 10-20% above numbers reported for major tech firms like these and are based in Seattle, which typically has 20-30% lower salaries than the Bay Area.





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS






Great post. We’ve experienced the same hiring challenges at RealSelf — the best people in tech and social media are not unemployed for long if at all. This recession has been a lot better for technical talent than the one in 2001-2003 in part because the dot com implosion scared off the kind of people who went into Computer Science in the late 90s simply for money. According to http://www.stanforddaily.com/2007/10/17/high-demand-for-cs-majors/ only 10,206 bachelor’s degrees in CS were awarded in 2006, versus 14,000 per year at the start of the decade.

The challenge with the retraining idea is that almost every startup in Seattle will only hire junior programmers _with_ a CS degree. We’ve found it so difficult to hire great CS graduates that we’ve had to look for young programmers who have amazing PHP/HTML/jQuery skills but didn’t get a CS degree or haven’t graduated yet. It worked great for one developer who plans to go back to college to finish his degree (although ironically _not_ for CS) and didn’t work for another who graduated with a liberal arts degree.

As you point out, you’re trying to hire the top few percent of performers. Even if 10% are unemployed, few of that 10% are top performers, and most of them have geographic constraints or personality quirks. A friend in the Bay Area has hired a few great programmers who work remotely from Portland, Oregon because he can’t find great employees locally. It’s still not the deep pool of great call center employees that Zappos has in Las Vegas.

In programming, it’s well-demonstrated that the best programmers are at least 3 times as fast as the average. I know because I was in the ’00 Yale CS classes that Joel Spolsky uses in his data at http://blog.summation.net/2009/03/why-hiring-is-paradoxically-harder-in-a-downturn.html

The professor let us know after every assignment how our log of hours spent compared to the rest of the class. That class was the CS equivalent of Organic Chemistry — it filtered out the students who weren’t serious about programming. If the best programmers are 4x as fast as the average at _Yale_, it’s worth paying more for the best or searching longer for the diamond in the rough.

by Eric Kennedy on November 9, 2010 at 6:10 am.

Eric – your analysis is brilliant, and spot on. The challenge of hiring developers is one thing, but the challenge of helping millions of American workers find jobs in an economy that no longer needs their skills… well, let’s just say I’m glad I have the problems I do, tough as they are.

by randfish on November 9, 2010 at 8:23 am. 

BTW, that last graph needs to be taken with a grain of salt, as it’s creator is a libertarian thinktank, and their goals/mindset tend to support their “Government bad!” agenda.

That said, there are far too few competent people out there – I tend to view this as a lack of self motivation to learn, or people who get too comfortable in their positions and aren’t called to do anything greater.

by zdw on November 14, 2010 at 4:25 pm. 

Nice analysis – but you leave yourself off the hook.

The jobs you were hiring for were all senior positions. (VPs, Managers, Senior Enginners etc). If you had promoted senior staff into the top jobs (promote Senior Engineers to Managers) then you could have promoted your Junior Engineers into the Senior positions.
This would have left you with Junior Engineer vacancies which the labour pool is probably better suited to. Especially if you were in a position to advertise those Junior positions as Apprenticeships.

A small company is going to have a hard time training many people up, but if every company looking to hire workers put it on itself to train an extra person up the unemployment figures would start to look better.

by William Ross on November 14, 2010 at 5:02 pm. 

Very true, but unfortunately, at startup size/scale, we don’t have many junior or senior people and we’ve got an extremely flat hierarchy/organization overall. I agree that this is a smart way for larger companies to go, though.

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 7:53 pm. 

> but for workers in their 30s, 40s and older, learning new >skills is extremely challenging (humans simply don’t learn >as well or as quickly as they get older).

That wasn’t very nice :(

by than on November 14, 2010 at 5:14 pm. 

Fair point – fixing that up.

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 7:52 pm. 

You couldn’t be more wrong. I’m over 40 and pickup new skills constantly. You have to know how to learn and if you know that, coupled with past experience and acquired knowledge it actually goes much faster than when you are in your 20′s. Granted some people fall in a rut and stop improving, same can be said of someone in their 20′s. Experience and knowledge will trump age every time.

by jeff on November 14, 2010 at 11:00 pm. 

Agree and disagree. You can’t learn all night and work all day from late thirties forward. So you have about half or two-thirds the raw horsepower available to the young and ambitious.

On the other hand, so many of the young are not ambitious in any kind of a diligent way so if an older worker husbands his/her hours well, s/he can beat out average younger workers easily enough.

But in a switching professions race with a really motivated and sharp young person, don’t kid yourself.

by Alec on November 21, 2010 at 8:08 am. 

So your upset that you can’t find people that some other company paid a lot of money to train. Why don’t you hire somebody and pay for the training yourself. Also I doubt your willing to pay a decent amount. I hire people with zero experience mainly because I domt want to have to retrain people and un teach them things.

Nobody wants to train their own employees. They want all the mistakes that come with learning to happen somewhere else. There is not a lack of talented workers there is a lack of employeers willing to take any risks.

by ogletree on November 14, 2010 at 5:31 pm. 

On the compensation front – we’re generally above these numbers – http://gigaom.com/2010/11/10/stat-shot-the-results-of-silicon-valleys-talent-war/ – for our engineering positions, so I’m not sure that’s the issue.

Re: training – that’s a very fair point. In a startup environment, it’s essential to have maximum productivity (or risk going out of business), so training on the job is challenging. We do have a substantive travel/conference/education budget for everyone, and allow paid work time for these. However, since there are so few of us to begin with, it’s tough to spare senior folks’ time to educate new people. We do some of that, but not as much as would be ideal – again, I think this is an area where companies like Zappos really excel (at least, from reading Tony Hsieh’s book).

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 7:51 pm. 

That doesn’t even address stock options or perks. And your stock incentives are completely speculative, whereas theirs are concrete.

Those aren’t senior position salaries. That’s not what the key, critical people are making — you know, like the kind you need. Those are average salaries at big companies who have many lower ranks to fill out.

Do you WANT to hire the *average* Yahoo engineer?

Think that will give you some kind of competitive advantage whatsoever?

by Jesus Jones on November 15, 2010 at 3:29 am.

I guess if you’re saying that we’re not attracting talent because we pay in the low hundreds of thousands when we should pay in the high hundreds of thousands that’s fair. But, the focus of the post is still relevant – even at our “only 20% above avg. engineer salaries” level, there’s a lot of job opportunity, but not a lot of candidates. My point is less about the struggle for our startup to find people and more about the peculiarity in struggling to hire people in a market where, supposedly, there’s a glut of labor talent available.

by randfish on November 15, 2010 at 5:58 am. 
There has never been a glut of *top-flight* talent available. And the Bay Area hasn’t been shedding tons of software jobs; quite the opposite. So there is nothing peculiar from either the perspective of your particular industry, OR from the perspective of any industry when you are “obsessively picky” about hiring.

You are purporting to be flummoxed that out-of-work telephone sanitizers hasn’t resulted in cheap senior software developers. I’m not sure anyone else was confused by this.

I also wouldn’t rely on that one source of salary information. Anecdotally, $120k and up is a lot more common from what I’ve been hearing.

And keep in mind that is for positions with a LOT less responsibility than for an early-stage startup employee. Actual work hours per week might be MUCH lower.

And catch the contradiction in these mindsets: “We have to move as fast as possible, we don’t have time to train anyone!” vs. “We take a long time to get the talent we desperately need.”

Six months is ridiculous. You can go through nine rounds of interviews at BigSlowCorp and get hired in less time than that. You’re a startup, you should be way more flexible in hiring. Find bright people who are enthusiastic and learn quickly and bring them up to speed. Relocate people from out of the area. Give trial runs to telecommuters. Any CEOs slower at hiring than IBM ought to remove the letters in “startup” from their frosted Alpha Bits every morning.

Come up with better ways to hire people if you want your company to do better than the average startup — which is to fail.

You’re making a fatal error, which is being attached to the idea that your compensation package “ought to be good enough”, when *clearly* the results show that it isn’t. What would you say if some other CEO griped to you that it was taking forever to find good people at HALF what you are offering?

You’d laugh at his miscalibration. “Isn’t it obvious,” you might say, “that not being able to find people means your offer isn’t as good as you thought?”

Also, I forgot you’re in Seattle. You can’t really poach entrepreneurially-minded people from Microsoft, unfortunately. If I were you I’d try to find all the little start-ups in the area and poach from them, because there’s no way you’re going to get people to relocate from California to Seattle until next Spring. The only place you’re going to find people happy about moving to Seattle right now is in Tacoma. :/

by Jesus Jones on November 15, 2010 at 8:50 am. 

Having to spend 2 months (or rather 2 months of time passing) to find domain specialists who you/your team finds suitable, and they you (not just technically but chemistry and business direction wise), doesn’t sound out of the ordinary to me. In fact it may still be rather quick. Now for the 6 months, how can you complain about that yet say at the same time you are extremely picky?

On the unemployment angle, I don’t know about your company, but many tech employers are rather biased against the unemployed, often to the point where they will not consider them at all (with perhaps the exception of the recently laid off in times of mass layoffs). That is their privilege, but in such a situation, the unemployment rate is irrelevant to them. They may even find the opposite effect, that the people they are looking for are more risk averse, and harder to identify between the increased resumes and solicitations they receive. And when they exclude the unemployed, they cannot expect the others to accept lower pay or more demanding terms either. (OTOH for fresh grads, the risk aversion against leaving a current job is probably not there. But then fresh grads don’t have “experience”.)

As for blaming the education system and taking a dim view of “older people’s” ability to learn new tricks (which is by no means a new assertion), that just carries an awful whiff of age discrimination. You may not have meant this, but I’m compelled to read between the lines “nobody wants to hire oldies, and higher ed doesn’t produce enough *trained* – not ‘educated’ – fresh blood”, as that’s what is usually behind such rhetoric.

by cm on November 14, 2010 at 5:59 pm. 
It seems like a lot of folks took away the age discrimination issue from my post, so I think I must have not been careful in my writing, because that certainly wasn’t the intent. I do feel bad about saying, “the solution is for everyone who has already had a good career, but is now finding themselves unemployed, is to learn a completely new skill set that better fits with the modern economy,” without being empathetic to how incredibly challenging that actually is. Perhaps I’ll try to edit the post to be more clear on that point.

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 7:48 pm. 
Almost anyone who’s any good in white collar has a job or a network by the time they hit forty. Exception for the odd fifty year old knocked out of an established industry by massive layoffs and relocations (IBM USA last ten years).

Does Rand really want to be retraining people who haven’t built their own network in forty plus years on the planet?

by Alec on November 21, 2010 at 8:12 am. 
There are only so many people in any population who have outstanding talents or the determination to acquire and maintain their skills at a high level. America is no different from any other country in this respect. Businesses have to compete for those people, and they will always be in demand.

The problem we have is with the bulk of less distinctively able and less skilled Americans. Their problem is being able to compete against workers in other countries. This difficulty originates not with their comparative skill level, which is not very different from 30 years ago, it’s with the big ‘wedge’ of taxes and regulatory costs our very expensive state adds to the cost of employing them here. We have been pricing them out of the labor market.

America’s retirees, welfare recipients and highly skilled workers, none of whom think they are directly affected by this problem, continue to vote for expensive measures that turn the US increasingly into the sort of post industrial ‘envir0-park’ it suits their fancy to live in, but as they do so they are fencing more and more of the most vulnerable Americans out of the jobs market.

by Neville on November 14, 2010 at 6:03 pm. 
Funny how Europe has much better social services and infrastructure than the US and we’re getting by just fine.

As are your neighbours to the north in Canada.

Let’s turn that around and start talk about CEO compensation (multiples of hundreds of workers salaries) and litigiousness (locust fields of predatory lawyers) and foreign wars draining the US economic body of all blood.

Drop the Crusades, get back to work and stop filing law suits while your managerial class write themselves unlimited checks – and you’ll have plenty of money to pay for the medical care of the unfortunate.

by Alec on November 21, 2010 at 8:18 am. 
In the region where I live in Montreal, Canada we have a dire need for generalist doctors and nurses and I would love for my child to continue to have an interest in those areas.

However her parents are die-hard computer hackers who have pierced in their field by being first on the ground and plowing through without so much as access to an education in Web or computer systems. And that is why it boggles my mind that it’s so hard to find good people to work in our knowledge economy.

Not only is there a massive amount of free educational material on the Web for anyone who can read to become a encyclopedia on the Web topic that they enjoy but you do not require a permit to practice those skills until you get noticed. Unlike doctors, nurses, engineers, etc. who need to perfect their skill within a school program or a professional order, we are left free to pursue our Web career and define it our way.

I think that there is more to it than education and we have to deal with massive amounts of cultural distraction in the form of video games, tv shows and Internet memes. And I say this after having coached both grandmothers and 20-year-olds to succeed in online business by acquiring basic Web skills.

What I want to see from the next generation of workers is the ability to write, reason, negotiate and create. I want to see world class cultural knowledge and understanding of science. I want to know that the people I hire are curious and have the skills required to do research and come to a good conclusion or inform a choice or decision. I want leaders, not louders.

Those skills are not specific to one field but they are good for all.

by Marie-Lynn Richard on November 14, 2010 at 6:30 pm. 
Very well said Mary – couldn’t agree more with this:

    What I want to see from the next generation of workers is the ability to write, reason, negotiate and create. I want to see world class cultural knowledge and understanding of science. I want to know that the people I hire are curious and have the skills required to do research and come to a good conclusion or inform a choice or decision.

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 7:44 pm. 
Interesting post and topic. I’ve seen many start-ups (in Silicon Valley mind you) finding it difficult to hire the ‘right’ people.

I am reminded of a recent column by Don Rainey on Venture Beat.

http://venturebeat.com/2010/08/19/8-things-i-wish-i-knew-before-starting-a-business/

“Good employees are really hard to find – A solid worker isn’t just difficult to find, he or she is really difficult to find. And they’re the first ones to leave. The truth is that 10 percent of the world is competent – and you’re looking for that 10 percent in every hire.”

This was the unvarnished truth that I’ve seen play out time and time again. Each time I’ve hired folks, I’m shocked at the quality of resumes and cover letters. It makes me a bit sad and angry at the same time.

One would think that the increases in college educated Americans (~25% now) would match the employment need.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Educational_attainment_in_the_United_States

But it doesn’t seem that way.

In the end, I’m troubled by the lack of critical thinking and experiential learning. I find far too many people are willing to accept someone’s argument, analysis or viewpoint without doing their own due diligence. “If they say it, then it must be right.”

I’m not saying everyone should be a contrarian, but what do YOU think! Have you really thought it out? Have you done some research or due diligence? Better yet, have you actually tried to do it yourself.

When one of my company’s OLAP tools wasn’t launched and I needed numbers, I taught myself SQL so I could have visibility. I’ve spent maddening hours (that ended in bliss) working out PHP conundrums. I was giddy when I realized the power of Regular Expression. I relish the opportunity to learn … and fail.

So, when I think about how to solve this problem, I think about it long term. I’m not sure turning it around quickly – even in 10 years – is an easy task. It’s difficult to change after a certain age.

I believe it starts with our education system putting greater emphasis on critical thinking, debate and logic & reason, instead of book regurgitation. It’s not so much about getting it right all the time, and more about exercising your own powers of critical thinking and reason.

Getting it wrong because you inserted someone else’s ideas as your own is unproductive. Getting it wrong based on your own ideas helps you become smarter.

I’m even more passionate about this since I’ve become a father. I do everything in my power to ensure my daughter (6) is asking questions and has a passion for learning.

A whole-scale shift in primary and secondary education is what I think is necessary to ensure this country meets the demand for information works and (off topic) … to raise the level of political discourse.

by AJ Kohn on November 14, 2010 at 6:40 pm. 
“Businesses are desperate for tech-savvy, information workers with a concentration of talents around programming, computer skills, written communication, marketing/advertising, engineering and other advanced specializations (healthcare/medical, finance, mathematics, etc). These individuals are in short supply.”

Good day,

If this is true, than why am I having difficulty finding employment? I have received two senior offers this year (government contracting), but both projects have been placed on hold due to funding constraints. I invite you to view my Linkedin profile; surely I am qualified in the technology and media/communication sectors.

http://www.linkedin.com/in/SterlingWrightDC
I will happily supply an expanded CV and references to qualified, interested parties.

I am available now, although have begun building a tech-media/communications start-up to fill the gap since I am not contributing to someone else’s venture– which I would like to do. It is very easy for me to relocate, and I am happy to come to a great many places. Thank you for taking a moment.

Very good article!

by S.W. on November 14, 2010 at 6:51 pm. 
How about; stop sending jobs offshore?

People without jobs or in a position where they might lose their job to an “offshore vendor” aren’t going to spend money at home. No money spent at home means that prices get driven down, which means companies lose more money and keep sending jobs offshore as a “cost-cutting measure.”

Stop giving the bean counters free reign over people’s jobs. Start spending more money at home to keep people working at home and putting money into the economy.

by Herne on November 14, 2010 at 7:04 pm. 
Hmm… I think we’d strongly disagree on this issue, but since it’s not the focus of the post, I’ll refrain from going into detail; there’s more than enough places online where this argument takes place already.

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 7:42 pm. 
So. You’re ageist?

by Mike on November 14, 2010 at 7:05 pm.
How is that? I think my suggestion that it might be more challenging to shift careers later in life than earlier isn’t especially controversial. And I think there’s quite a lot of research suggesting that cognitively and physiologically, it’s harder to learn new languages and build muscle memory (for physical tasks, sports, etc.) later in life. This is not a criticism in any way, just an observation – and one I’d love to see proven wrong.

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 7:40 pm. 
If you are recruiting permanent staff then I suggest getting smart people. They may take a few months to get up to speed but they will be productive for years.

I would not use anything for the right wing think tanks since they think lying and misleading are good strategies. The chart show federal education dollars versus results although education is normally funded locally. The chart is therefore misleading.

by Peter John on November 14, 2010 at 7:10 pm. 
Rand,
When there is uncertainty in a market, the value of “quality” goes up. I believe we’re seeing a “flight to quality” effect in today’s job market. Even if you were hiring retail, you’d want to hire great retail employees with a bunch of experience and a great attitude. The bottom 50% of any pool of workers will be passed over. Thus, your possible solution of retraining just doesn’t work. The simple uncertainty factor in the economy will drive some unemployment. Or, to make it real, would you hire a programmer for SEOmoz who wasn’t self motivated, and only retrained through a government program?

The effects of uncertainty on a market have been one of the greatest drivers of American prosperity in the long term. Everyone – business people, individual employees, investors – know the entire US economic system isn’t going to go sideways off a cliff, so they don’t move overly cautiously. We’re seeing an effect now where “trauma” has set in, and businesses are acting as individuals did for decades after the depression. By having as little trauma as possible, through the bailouts and stabilization, we’ve limited some individual trauma, but it’ll take a long time for everything to work out of the system.

by Brian Bulkowski on November 14, 2010 at 7:24 pm. 
The fault also lies with the business community. Workers are not given the opportunity to grow and become successful with today’s current ‘build-n-flip’ mentality.

You’re in SEO, so you know what I’m talking about Rand.

People must be in the top 10% to gain just a sliver of job security — otherwise they are hired only for something specific, the project they are hired on to then is flipped, and quickly they are back out looking for work again (a long process) — that means 90% of us are screwed and never get a chance to work, develop, and grow in the private sector after college/training to get that 10+ or 5+ years of solid experience but instead are bounced around like ping-pong balls.

Business today refuses to make an investment in people (humans as resources that need cultivation) but instead focus squarely on this quarter’s stock price or immediate return. That’s why you can’t find anybody good; you’ve never given them the slightest chance to become a winner.

by Derek Rogerson on November 14, 2010 at 7:37 pm.
I imagine it would be tough to get people to change jobs. The transitional costs of health care, relo, lost vacation time, are considerable. I would think that problem is multiplied when the recruited party has to consider the risk of not fitting the culture of a startup, or the possibility of falling between the cracks if the startup shifts it’s mission or product.

This inertia would tend to suppress internal promotion and progressive career paths for the currently employed, which would make it that much more difficult for you to find qualified recruits that are willing to move.

by Joe Preston on November 14, 2010 at 7:48 pm. 
I call foul.

Seen a lot of capable people shown the door because they didnt have the right stuff on their resume. I will take a hungry passionate person ~ over a CS grad any day of the week. Too many times have we hired the perfect person, on paper, only to find they are horrible at what they do and are not team players.

Take a chance and allow someone to come on board and INVEST in them. You might like what you find and turnover will turn to zero.

Oh, and if you want to fault something fault the education system which is absolutely horrible compared to other countries. Practice what you preach and stop blogging and start doing. Thats whats wrong with this country.

by Full of it on November 14, 2010 at 7:55 pm. 
People who were awful students and were unable to excel at either high school or university (note the either not both) are unlikely to be much use as knowledge workers either. There will be the odd exception, but fewer than you’d think.

I’ve done a lot of hiring in the last two years and started out with no bias towards formal education even a fair amount of cynicism. Current staff is almost all Ph.D’s (finished or in progress), M.A’s and engineers. The others just didn’t make it. Issues with either persistence or method.

There are a few notable exceptions (a guy called Gates dropped out of university) but those few would be more inclined to be founders than players in someone else’s game.

by Alec on November 21, 2010 at 8:25 am. 
Doing software in Washington with your own company probably gives you a distorted view of the rest of the work force – I’m not saying this in a hater tone, I just don’t think you’re coming from a place the millions of unemployed can relate to.

To that point, you’re not 50+, looking for work in Southern Calif in graphic arts. As graphic arts has morphed into whatever flavor any size company thinks it should be, the skill set of the talent that’s looking for work can’t seem to keep up. Or if you have kept up and branched out to other related fields to make yourself more appealing to a prospective employer, it’s still not enough. It’s always the dangling carrot in the interview… “Oh, but we need 7 years experience with Windows 7, and you only have 1 year. (huh?)

There are tons of ads for schools offering training. I like the schools that offer training for electricians and plumbers. I mean everyone always needs those services, right? Wrong, those trade people are hurting for work too because those who still have money are putting off all but critical work we need done. So yeah, go get some more training and finance X dollars and still have no job when you complete the course.

Luckily (or not) I am not the person above and work for a Fortune 500 who has learned to do more with less, including not hiring people. We have learned you don’t need rocket scientists to make us money. In the rare occasion we do hire, we like people who are pointed in the direction we like, but haven’t developed the skills yet – we can pay them less money and they work extra hours on their time because they are eager to learn and keep their job.

As I’ve said many times here at home, looking for work these days is like winning the lottery. All those people who have lost their jobs had the skill sets and abilities to perform those jobs before they lost them. Yes, a smart person will always seek to learn more and increase their value, but the riches that are in the unemployed are going to waste. These are good people who just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.

by Jonnie Santos on November 14, 2010 at 8:03 pm. 
Jonnie – you’re 100% right about the bias I carry, and I hope my post came across with the right perspective. I’m an employer noting how hard it is to find people to fill positions and contrasting that with the high unemployment rate, wondering how it is both these truths can exist.

I have absolutely nothing critical to say about those who are unemployed – I think it’s bull when people say the’re “lazy” or “unwilling to learn” or “couldn’t cut it.” And I think it’s a waste that the business world can’t find good ways to put this lost talent to work, even at a time when profits and growth are so high.

by randfish on November 14, 2010 at 8:57 pm. 
This post echoes my recent experience as hiring manager as well; it rings largely true, at least for me.

To those suggesting too many jobs are being offshored, ours is a situation where we are onshoring our development and QA. Finding a good, small development team has been months worth of challenge, despite paying above average, being centrally located, and providing opportunities to do some really creative things in the entertainment industry with modern tools and frameworks.

I’ve been through 4-5 trialists who, with little uncertainty, didn’t have what it takes. It’s more than the difference between the top performers providing 3-4 times the productivity, it’s often about the underperformers doing more harm than good.

I have found a good crop of experienced developers with likable, good personalities and a desire to succeed. Developed critical thinking skills in these fully-formed adults, however, has been woeful, as has the ability to actually put to use the tools and techniques they claim to know. Code tests are unreliable and even multiple technical evaluators can be easily fooled.

On a macroeconomic scale, what strikes me is how racially polarized the IT field is and how little mention there is of that fact. I attend software developer meetups and code camps and it’s quite clear any grassroots efforts to educate and interest certain lower-income, higher-unemployment sectors of our society are non-existent. Were I a better man, I’d probably do something about that.

by quolo on November 14, 2010 at 8:51 pm. 
Good post. As others have already pointed out, one of the problems is that there is a lack of training by companies. It’s understandable on the part of a startup kept going on shoestrings, but sadly this occurs everywhere.

Years ago, certain corporations had huge reputations for their training programs (i.e. Pepsi for marketing, Salomon Bros. for financial analysis, etc.) Nowadays, no established company that I am aware have such justly famous training programs anymore. Everyone wants someone already trained and are unwilling to invest in training their workers.

There is also the another point brought up here in that there is not an unlimited supply of hard working , competent people in any given population to satisfy the demands of the increasingly complex economy that the world has become. Training an ordinary guy/girl and end up with a mere ordinary employee is not deemed to be acceptable anymore in today’s economy. Everyone wants the extraordinary employee — but of course that’s impossible to fill across all industries and companies.

So what ends up happening is the situation we have now and will probably have for the future — elite employees and owners of capital doing very well, while your less than highly competent person is relegated to menial jobs.

This is why everyone who has a successful business and/or are among the elite employees should fully support all the crappy and expensive socialist measures such as welfare/healthcare/etc., because otherwise those menials may start to form mobs which come to burn your houses down or elect the next Hitler wannabee.

Failing to address the problem of the incompetent masses means that at some point the incompetent masses address their misery in the only way they can — through violence or its proxies.

In the end, we’ll all pay for the lack of employers actively recruiting and training ordinary people — one way or the other.

by Anonbobo on November 14, 2010 at 8:58 pm. 
Your proposal wouldn’t alleviate your problem at all.

If everyone were more qualified, that would just enable more companies to be viable, which means you’d STILL be competing for the top people.

Even if everyone were re-trained to be a programmer, that would just shift the problem around so every OTHER sector had a desperate lack of qualified people.

There are too many factors in play when we talk about the economy in general, so let’s just focus for a moment on your company and other start-ups like it.

From that perspective, I could re-write this article enumerating all the things you’re doing wrong and how you’re not competing well on compensation. How are you going to attract the TOP people, offering what you’re offering?

The old job ad cliche: “Wanted: Top people. Pay: Market rate.”

All you have to do is put yourself in THEIR shoes. What would it take for you to go work for someone else? You don’t even have to go THAT far — just ask yourself if you would switch *your* compensation package with what you’re offering to a new employee.

Maybe you love what you do so much, you’d do it for free. If so, you can easily prove it by giving ALL your equity to other people.

That doesn’t sound so hot, does it? It’s one thing if *nobody* is making money from it, but it’s quite another to watch someone else make a ton of money off your own hard work.

You not only have to compete with other companies, you have to compete with the prospective employees *themselves*, as the most desirable people are also the most able to do their own start-ups.

So maybe you offer slightly more job security than a brand-new startup. But that’s not as much as a more established company, like Google or Facebook or even Yahoo.

Can you match Google’s perks? Facebook’s? Zynga’s?

This is essentially like the owner of a minor-league baseball team saying the government needs to train more baseball players so he can get ‘em. Why would that help his chances at all? The competition would just get stronger, too.

And why should it be anyone else’s job to train your workers? Sure, it’s nice to externalize that cost, but there are often VERY bright people who you could bring in and train in less time than it takes to find someone who already knows what you want. I remember one defunct game company that used to demand 5 years of experience, then eventually 3, then eventually 1, before they went bust. If they had hired people with less experience at the start, they’d have years of experience in *exactly* what the company was doing in that same timeframe.

So the real answer to your dilemma is that your company looks the same to the kind of employee you want as those teeming masses of unemployed look to employers. You don’t bring enough to the table.

If you don’t offer the compensation they are looking for (which is not always just financial, but often includes things like autonomy), why should they come work for you?

If you’re looking for a DEAL, you’re not *desperate*. You’re just cheap and making excuses.

A company lives or dies by its talent and execution, and your job as a CEO is to execute on getting the talent. If you don’t have the money *then go raise some*.

Here’s a simple challenge. Rank your compensation package compared to what everyone else is doing.

If you’re in the 50th or 75th or even 90th percentile, how are you going to get 99th percentile talent?

Look at the companies that everyone wants to work at, and figure out why they want to work there.

P.S. A CEO who decides that “it’s the economy’s fault” or “OTHER people need to do something!” is a CEO who is about to be an ex-CEO.

by Jesus Jones on November 14, 2010 at 9:40 pm.
Thanks Rand for this very thoughtful overview. I recently attended my business school reunion at Harvard where a former Goldman Sachs partner, now turned professor gave a very articulate assessment of the issues facing the American economy – one being the evisceration of the middle class and two the increasing US debt load. At the same time, he cheered on many of the titans of Wall Street in the audience who have great “investment” opportunities if they are smart and sharp.

I came away very dismayed. I had hoped he would talk about how those titans in the audience with access and control of great amounts of capital could help reinvigorate the economy by placing bets on businesses that could help replace those middle class jobs – e.g. privatization of infrastructure initiatives and investment in energy efficiency.

Your post points out that the mind set is not there amongst the investor class. However, if they don’t start getting innovative soon, they will be forced to return money to pension funds and growth in the US economy will continue at a lackluster pace.

by Mary Ann Halford on November 15, 2010 at 12:42 am. 
[...] there is a graph showing how much inflation-adjusted spending per student has grown since 1970.http://randfishkin.com/blog/28/t…Why has it grown so much? AFAIK, class sizes have not gotten smaller and teachers are not getting [...]

by Why has inflation-adjusted spending per student increased so much since 1970? - Quora on November 15, 2010 at 1:04 am. 
Rand, great article. The discussion around re-training and re-education of workers made me think about a recent trip to a local organization in the Kansas City area. The Blue Valley school district has founded the CAPS (Center for Advanced Professional Studies) organization for high school juniors and seniors. You can read more about it here: http://tinyurl.com/3476cn9
I’m thinking how a similar program for college and post-institution workers would be greatly beneficial. The problem with “night classes” at local community colleges or higher institutions can sometimes be money. If you’re unemployed, do you really have any extra money for “classes”? It’s a cyclical cycle. And really, do “classes” actually help us even if we WANT to learn and LIKE to learn? Teaching, education and training need to be re-vamped and there’s no reason a lot of it can’t be free of charge. Tons of content is free on the internet to learn from…but again, if you’re unemployed, maybe you had to cut your cable internet bill because it was too high and the cash isn’t coming in.
I’m sure there’s many of talented, smart, driven people that might just need some free resources to pick up the latest skill or try out a new idea.
Basically, take the start-up “incubator” idea and expand it to have free incubators for the unemployed. You get x months access to the free incubator to brush up your skills and talents and possibly to start your own start-up company. Then, at the end of the x months, there is a presentation day where companies come to watch you pitch yourself…and also a side where entrepreneurs can pitch to angels and VCs.
Time and time again from business people and fortune entrepreneurs we are proven wrong about higher education and how it is not always needed. Sure, doctors, nurses, lawyers, and other various fields will require proven certification. But to be a business savvy entrepreneur (Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, etc.) or a Zappos call center associate, the debt of a higher education isn’t needed to have a great life if you are a hard worker who can execute.
Much like Marie-Lynn commented about, there are diamonds out there who may be the scientific, inquisitive, creative, reasoning people we want, they might just need a little extra boost or some free time with some great teachers to get back on the job front.

by Kris Nessa on November 15, 2010 at 4:26 am. 
Kris,

My whole life is an incubator for the people around me. I have helped friends write a book, change from a technical to an art career, start online stores, sell crafts, practice a new language, build an awesome eco-friendly power generator, improve something they are already working on. I’ve also built a ton of websites for solopreneurs. I would say 75% of the time it’s a success. While this may sound like a lot of work it is actually endless free entertainment and education. People in my entourage frequently say that I should benefit from an endowment to do ONLY that (I am a single mom with a full-time SEO/SMO job) With over 16 years in Web, I believe that I could be an asset inside an existing incubator BUT I also have a slew of startup ideas to pursue myself and 2011 is the year of working on my own projects and one of them is a philanthropic education game that has a project funding component. What I am trying to say is that one does not really need capital (cash money) to invest in others but time. And don’t expect it to return anything specific, there is no way to know the awesome things what will happen when all your friends and colleagues are happy, accomplished and actualized.

Marie-Lynn

by Marie-Lynn Richard on November 23, 2010 at 2:58 pm. 
“Government investment makes some sense”. Actually, it makes no sense, because all of the money spent by government for “creating jobs” must be pulled out of the private economy, which destroys even more jobs. Far too many Americans seem to think that the government can create wealth.

Aside from that, good article!

by Alan on November 15, 2010 at 2:12 pm.
I think reasonable people can certainly disagree about how much wealth/jobs government can or should create, but to suggest the number is 0 or that increased taxation must always reduce private sector employment would be to ignore overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Since there’s plenty of places on the web to debate this, I’ll not argue it here (it’s pretty far from the subject of the post), but, IMO, absolutist and ideological positions like this distract from the goal of finding productive solutions.

by randfish on November 15, 2010 at 5:03 pm. 
[...] The Irony of the US Economy in 2010: No Jobs + No One to Hire « Rand's Blog Why is this? How can there be a massive glut of unemployed, desperate-for-work individuals in the same country and the same regions where employers (like us) are equally desperate for talent? [...]

by links for 2010-11-15 – Kevin Burke on November 16, 2010 at 12:04 am. 
