By SIOBHAN GORMAN

Gen. David Petraeus turned the tide in the Iraq war, flushed the Taliban from southern strongholds in Afghanistan and infiltrated al Qaeda in Yemen. His newest quest, as director of the Central Intelligence Agency, is proving just as daunting: getting more space for treadmills.

Mr. Petraeus, 59 years old, arrived in 2011 to find two basement gyms at the CIA's Langley, Va., headquarters, one with original flooring dating to 1964. A hallway doubles as an indoor running track; it takes 10.25 laps to cover a mile. One gym is so small it can't contain the punching bags and medicine balls that spill into the hall, where people stretch out and do mat exercises.

In an agency of spies, even the workout space is deemed a classified facility and the CIA doesn't disclose the number of employees who can work up a sweat there.

Mr. Petraeus, a fitness buff, quickly became an advocate of gym improvements—and discovered the quest for new facilities has been a marathon effort that defeated other CIA directors over a course of some 16 years.


Yet after a yearlong struggle, Mr. Petraeus, who retired from the military last year after 37 years of service, has thrown in the workout towel, at least for now. "CIA could get bin Laden, but it couldn't get a gym," lamented one U.S. official.

CIA spokesman Preston Golson, who works out regularly at CIA headquarters, said the agency is now planning to improve its existing facilities, citing its "can-do" ethic.

The CIA's failure is all the more striking because it plays out against the backdrop of a little-known gym culture that has grown up across Washington, where plenty of official buildings give both lawmakers and bureaucrats a chance to work off all that stress produced by Beltway gridlock. This gym network isn't often discussed, though, lest taxpayers think the government is goofing off on their dime.

Those pesky lawmakers in Congress who have looked askance at a new CIA gym have access to several congressional gyms, available to current and former members. In fact, the relative poshness of the congressional gyms led Leon Panetta, a former member of Congress who swims laps on Capitol Hill, to revive the long-standing push for a CIA gym upgrade last year, when he was director of the CIA.

President Barack Obama patronizes a rotating set of government gyms to play basketball with friends on weekends, moving among facilities at the Interior Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Fort McNair, an Army base nestled inside the capital city.

And the fitness-obsessed officers at the Pentagon have their own gyms, which make the CIA's current space look pretty dowdy. "It's really sad," said Henry Crumpton, who led the CIA's offensive in Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks. "You compare these to the military's facilities, and it's embarrassing."

Pentagon spokesman George Little said: "I'm not weighing in—literally or figuratively—on any gym comparisons."

One CIA facility, the size of a two-bedroom apartment, sports two treadmills and a sprinkling of other cardiovascular machines. A newer space, dating to the 1980s, carved out of old offices with cinder-block walls and limited air conditioning, holds weightlifting equipment packed so tightly that many machines have less than a foot of space between them.

Yoga and Pilates classes are offered in a small space off the workout room at $10 a pop.

In 1996, then-director John Deutch, who joined the CIA from the Pentagon, was among the first to embark on the gym quest. "I did not consider them satisfactory," he said in a recent interview. "Having that ability to exercise is especially important at a place like CIA, where the officers and analysts are under a great deal of stress."

But the Cold War was done, and Washington was divvying up the peace dividend, making it a bad time to pitch a $10 million "field house," as it was called then. The CIA dropped the idea.

The effort was revitalized early last year under Mr. Panetta, who wanted renovations and a pool, though his pool idea was dropped because of its cost.

The CIA looked into finding an outside donor to pay for gym improvements. But CIA lawyers raised questions about accepting outside funding, current and former officials said. Inside the CIA, employees cracked jokes about which defense contractor's name would be emblazoned on the new gym.


When Mr. Petraeus became CIA director last September, he brought his reputation as a fitness fanatic with him. Not long after he arrived, rumors swirled that he planned to give the boot to the Dunkin' Donuts inside the CIA's headquarters. But the CIA's Dunkin' Donuts remains, and it is common for afternoon lines to form at what may be the world's most secret doughnut shop.

The new director did initiate a CIA shape-up campaign, called "Find Your Fit." He added a healthy-eating section to the agency's executive dining room menu and has been known to launch into discourses on "good carbs and bad carbs."

Hardier employees are invited to join him for midday runs around the campus, provided they can run between a six- and seven-minute mile.

Mr. Petraeus suggested the agency shift funds internally to pay for the gym. The agency made a detailed case, drawing up a chart that compared the CIA's facilities to others across the government, including the more-spacious congressional and Pentagon gyms. The estimated cost of $15 million to $25 million would come out of a total nonmilitary intelligence budget of about $55 billion.

When CIA officials conferred with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, to which it technically reports, officials there said the current budget-tightening made it "not a good time" to pursue the gym project, a senior intelligence official said. Some senior CIA officials also advised against it.

Still, the talk around Langley indicates the issue isn't likely to disappear entirely.

One official couldn't help but joke about the special features that would be needed for a new CIA gym: "One locker for you, and one for your alias."


—Adam Entous and Julian E. Barnes contributed to this article.
