
Aleph: comentários/comments

by Paulo Coelho on August 10, 2010

This space is moderated, but not censored. You can post your comments in any language. To read the comments in a different language, please click on the flag on your right (sidebar)

Hay un moderador, pero los comentarios no serán censurados. Para leer los comentarios en otras lenguas, utilize las banderas en la barra lateral




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Shirley July 31, 2012 at 9:39 pm

    I was very eager to read Aleph after reading some of your earlier works years before. I was discouraged in your behavior … you seemed arrogant, aloof, and acting like a man above the middle classes, impatient, curt, and disrespectful at times. The ‘autobiography’ gave me an insight into a person I did not want to know and has clouded my reading of your works. I can hope that you are not this self-involved and are a caring individual. May life create opportunities for you to grow and change.

    
margherita July 29, 2012 at 12:51 pm

    Mi chiamo Margherita, lo scorso anno ho iniziato per caso a leggere “Il cammino di Santiago” +Paulo Coelho si racconta sul cammino di Santiago (DVD più libro) perché dovevamo andare in viaggio (in camper) in Francia, Spagna e Portogallo. Abbiamo visitato Lourdes, Fatima, Santiago de Compostela, Saragoza, tutti luoghi Meravigliosi, carichi di una Misteriosa Forza. Alla fine di questo viaggio, dopo ben 18 anni di lavoro precario, mentre con la mia famiglia ero davanti alla Sagrada Familia, si è realizzato il mio grande sogno ormai creduto irrealizzabile: la proposta di un lavoro a tempo indeterminato, un vero Miracolo! Ho letto tanti “segni”, tante misteriose coincidenze in questo viaggio e ho cominciato ad interessarmi sempre più alle sue opere. Ho letto:
    L’alchimista , Sulla sponda del fiume Piedra mi sono seduta e ho pianto, Manuale del guerriero della luce, Veronika decide di morire, Undici minuti, Aleph. Ora sto leggendo: Le confessioni del pellegrino e mi ritrovo in tutto ciò che leggo. Per il nostro 25° anno di matrimonio vorremmo percorrere il cammino di Santiago. Mi piacerebbe davvero tanto incontrarla e per caso su Internet ho scoperto che lei sarà in Europa a Berlino il 22 agosto. Ho partecipato al concorso on line e ho subito vinto 2 biglietti per partecipare al Campus….sarà un segno del Destino? Ora mi mancano i biglietti aerei…..ma i prezzi sono troppo alti….vedremo se ci sarà un’altra “coincidenza” fortunata che ci permetterà di arrivare a Berlino per incontrarla. Sarebbe straordinario!

    
Iderma July 29, 2012 at 3:46 am

    Me habias perdido…volviste a atraparme con Aleph. Leere Brida otra vez.

    
natalia July 28, 2012 at 4:40 pm

    My feeling to you killing me. And love should be a joy. Not often does the crash occur in our relations with you? I don’t want to get into a psychiatric clinic. I even my son does not know Our relationship still doomed. There are many in your and my life, through which cannot be breached. As such stress I can no longer bear it, because they cause me pain, from which I will die.”

    
Florencia July 28, 2012 at 3:52 pm

    Paulo:
    La primera salida con mi ex novio fue en una librería. Fuimos a que me regalara un libro que habia seleccionado cuidadosamente, y yo me perdí en la librería, era la primera vez que entraba en ella. No sabía donde estaban los distintos tipos de libro, nada, por lo tanto, no pude ni siquiera ver dónde estaba tu sección. (Me habían prestado “El Peregrino” tiempo atrás y había quedado fascinada! quería seguir leyendo sobre vos). Antes de irnos, él me preguntó si había encontrado otro libro que me interesara, y tristemente le dije que no..
    Pasaron cuatro meses de eso, no duré ni un mes con esa persona. De ser alguien completamente espiritual, pasé a convertirme en una más.. pero ayer volvía del cine (de 3 horas de cine!) y pasamos en frente de la librería con mi hermana. Paramos y encontré varios libros tuyos… algunos que me habían recomendado mis amigos, pero no sabía cuál sería el indicado para éste momento. Cuando leo la contratapa del libro, me detengo en ésta frase ” el autor narra cómo a traves de una grave crisis de fe (…)”.
    El día anterior, ordenando la biblioteca familiar, encontré un “Alpeh” de Borges.. sincrónico, no?
    Todavía no termino de leer el libro (a penas estás comenzando tu viaje en tren!) pero hasta ahora, me está apasionando..
    Ojalá viajes a Argentina en alguna oportunidad, en Mendoza particularmente, no quiero perder la ocasión de decirte “gracias”, por que sé que éste libro, es un nuevo comienzo para mi también.

    
Alicia July 26, 2012 at 11:09 pm

    Mr. Coelho

    I wish to say thank you for sharing with us, your readers, your body of work. I have read many of your books and am currently reading Aleph. I do not rush to get your books when they come out, but they always seem to find me. They appear to find me at times in my life when their depth and beauty truly resonate with me. Sometimes they awaken questions I have been reluctant to ask of myself, and other times they appear to voice what I have not been able to express myself.
    I am just into the beginning of Aleph, but it has struck a very deep chord that is reflective of a soul journey I have known I need to take, but have been wary to do. But move forward we must, and for me, accepting my past and acknowledging it for what it is, thanking the universe for this gift and then moving forward from and with the knowledge it has shared, has not been an easy or desirable thing for me to do, in this instance. But, once again, your words have found me at a time when I needed to hear them. Thank you for your spirit and clarity which further embraces the beauty and connectedness of us all.
    Ever So Respectfully Yours,
    Alicia

    
Enver July 26, 2012 at 7:15 am

    Road from the heel lead true the heel

    
Walter Paul Bebirian July 26, 2012 at 2:51 am

    Hello my friend –

    I love that I am able to see and feel you talking with me through these videos – they are truly magical!!!

    Perhaps you will find some inspiration by viewing a few of my images here:

    http://bebirianart.com

    I wish you the longest and healthiest life ever-

    Walter

   
Ruth July 25, 2012 at 3:03 pm

    Thank you for showing me that the things that seem so important in life at times are really inconsequential in some ways, and that life will go on. We will always look for answers and we will always have little epiphanies. Being half your age and reading about your journey gives me happiness with the way things are…It’s a neverending journey!

   
Виолетта July 25, 2012 at 12:02 pm

    Спасибо,что пишите, сомневаетесь, решаете, меняетесь, стремитесь в перед, мыслите, принимаете вызовы, встаете и действуете, достигаете, мечтаете, открываете, верите, останавливаетесь, слушаете себя, растете, побеждаете и смотрите на мир открытыми глазами…Потому что в итоге многие идут за Вами и находят себя,а это большое дело.

    
Adie July 24, 2012 at 9:36 am

    Dear Coelho!
    I am just a dreamer, have read almost all your books and Alchemist will be always my favourite… I have tried to follow my heart and dreams but somehow, I end up as a wounded warrior, with hurt pride, injured soul and shattered dreams.Sometimes it feels; how come I survived. The heart aches and breaks which have been so intense. I really wish to die yet again somehow I gather courage to live and see why destiny has to cast me in the heroic roles all the times, often I realize my mistakes but even when I try to make them right, nothing works, I have no power, I only have to accept and respect others for who they are. And yet I think am so naive that I still want to dream again.
    I want to know my truth before I die, I only encountered it once and then lived in a dream for so long till the next dream knocked at my door and I followed it, I trusted him so much and yet he left me in total confsion and bewilderment.WHY? and how can I heal it, Aleph told me, I too have something to do with him in my past life. But he never gave me a chance to resolve our conflict.He was always a part of my soul but I realized it after 17 years and that too was momentary, I don’t know how to fix things, he is not ready to listen, to respond, he just reacts and makes me react sometimes…so natural…and at this moment I am just lost in serach of my lost dreams :( the one that has been snatched and the other which perhaps never existed except in my soul.In this situation there appeared someone, who is approaching me with all his might, like no man has ever desired me like him…he is creating further confusion around me when my heart has been closed and my soul is wounded, I repeat Wounded…I don’t what I have to learn from this…

   
Enver July 24, 2012 at 8:01 am

    I love you …my teacher.

   
anghie July 24, 2012 at 3:30 am

    NECESITO y DESEO conocerte!

    
Simona July 24, 2012 at 3:16 am

    Hello,
    mr. Coelho, Aleph is onky my second book from you, but I like it very much. I only wanted to ask you something – when you are talking about time, rails and wheels of train (mutual justifying) were you inspired by Hegel´s philosophy? Because it is really about that=))
    Thanks a lot

    
maytte July 21, 2012 at 4:34 pm

    Gracias infinitas gracias mi amado paulo , cada vez que leo tus libros, algo cambia en mi interior , es inexplicable esa sensacion de paz que tus escritos producen en mi , aun no termino de leer “Aleph ” y ya ha calado en lo profundo de mi ser, me ha conmovido hasta las lagrimas Gracias en serio gracias por que a veces dices las cosas que muchos otros pensamos pero que no nos atrevemos a expresar.

    
Jamshed ( Jimmy) Bilimoria July 21, 2012 at 9:36 am

    Dear Paulo
    i dont know whether you will read and reply .. or these will be mere words lost in the cosmos.
    I am a Parsi (hope you are aware who we are ) from India…. initiated into ‘practical ‘ spirituality .. through the doorway of the Chistiya & Quadiria school of Sufism ; however after seven years of ‘discipileship’ under a Sufi Peer ( which is why i would be interested to know of J your master .. you have not revealed anything of him in your books), where the foundation stone of awarenress was laid .. my soul said ‘enough .. now break with traditional rituals and come with me ‘ .. and we travelled towards pathways leading to Soul Awareness and Activation .. ‘Climbing ‘ up the ‘pyramid’ to achieve the ‘zero level – peak of pyramid” … you should know what i speak of .. if not search intuitively ..

    Though I have enjoyed your books .. particularly Aleph.. or Alif ( a mere simple vertical stroke) , which is the first Arabic alphabet Or even the first number .. Rumi in his Masnavi .. hinting of its mystical ‘potency’ : By its self — Alif is nothing, meaningless , with no potency .. a zero .. which could be interpreted as infinity ( Swami Vivekanand) … Yes you have expalined the mystical aspect of Alif very well , when exprienced beyond Time and Space .. for those of us who have experienced the state of Alif/ Aleph . relate to what you say ..
    However having said this .. that your books are very intersting and true to life(spiritual life) …Yet the fact remains that you remain at the Occult level . And havent made the ‘quantum Leap ‘ towards True Transcidence .( beyond Time and space , Creation and even Form .. what the Sufi’s term as Lahoot) ..

    .. yes through Alif you have experienced being Beyond the constraints of Time … but you yet need to experience being beyond Creation and Form.. and move towards the Formless .. The Source .. being close to the Supreme Being.. This you can experience only when you break with Tradidition / Rituals of any sort and become truly aware of your Psyche Being ( soul personality) which surely has developed within you by now ; you need to break with The Occult ( you touch on this in your book Valkyries .. A Ritual to End all Rituals)…

    If you feel inclined to what in brief i speak of .. kindly get hold of the book “Shri Aurobindo or Adventure of Consciousness ” – Author Satpem .. If you have read this book .. well then i have nothing to say more .. but if you havent .. then the book will quench the thirst of your soul, which in turn will put your intuitive as well as your intelligent mind on a new tack .. and the celestial winds of change will bring a new lease of life , to lead you on to new Adventures into Consciousness beyond your present Awareness … for by now your soul will be wearing the captains cap and not your mind

    May the eagle of Lake Baikal protect you .. as i write .. I think of Christrina , Hilal & Yaho..

    Would like to correspond with you on and off .. i’ll leave it to you ..

    With Love and Light to guide you always ..

    Jimmy

    

    sam July 31, 2012 at 10:40 am

        Dear Jimmy
        Your words did not get lost in cosmos. They touched at least myself, a reader of every book that Paulo has written. I will read the book that you mentioned, but please read the other books of Paulo too. They will show you many things.

        Regards

arun July 20, 2012 at 9:26 am

    i am indian boy specialy kerala guy i ready your novels eleven minitues and saheer i like that what is your new work i love you novelsgrandfather by arun c menon

    
Stell Guzman July 20, 2012 at 4:04 am

    Just finished reading Aleph! WOW!!! It only confirms why I am such a fan of yours!! You are BRILLIANT!!! absolutely Brilliant!!! I just want to memorize engrave in my heart the description of how you LOVE (pg.214) I literally broke out into this cold sweat and for an instant my heart stopped! What a feeling!!! Thank you for sharing a amazing talent.

   leili July 19, 2012 at 10:47 pm

    hi
    You said in an interview, your books have been translated into Farsi and is located on your site
    I am interested readers to your books, to get the Persian version please help me
    Thank you in advance.
    I really admire you and I am your fan.
    I apologize if my letter was long and full of mistakes.
    Thanks
    ليلي(leili)

   Gunhild July 19, 2012 at 7:56 am

    Although never having the chance to meet you, you are part of my spiritual soul. Reading your books is understanding my life. Being caught in every day life, they are my way to escape and to follow my dreams, knowing that I will not get the chance to live them.
    With the light of love

 Mati July 19, 2012 at 1:16 am

    Gracias. Me ensenaste Insistencia, Paciencia y Como ser libre, dar amor y liberarme de este escudo que me tenia jalando hacia abajo. Love

  
