
July 24, 2012 9:30 AM

   
4 arrests in separate "Dark Knight" incidents

(CBS/AP) At least 4 people have been arrested, accused in separate incidents of making threats during or after screenings of the new Batman movie, underscoring moviegoers' anxieties and heightened security in the wake of a deadly mass shooting at a Colorado theater showing "The Dark Knight Rises."

In West Homestead, Pa., on Sunday patrons at the Waterfront movie complex ran for the exits after a fight broke out outside a restroom and a patron yelled "Bomb!"

According to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, the fight began in a restroom when a child knocked on a stall door. Police said the man inside repeatedly told the boy there was someone inside, at which point the child swore at him.

The individual later confronted the boy's mother and then shoved or punched her. The woman's father then stepped into the confrontation, only to be bitten, police told CBS Station KDKA.

Police arrested the 51-year-old man, whose name was not released. He will be charged with simple assault, disorderly conduct and harassment.

Meanwhile, a scuffle between two women in the VIP section of an auditorium at the same multiplex led to a man running out shouting "Bomb!" That sparked panicked moviegoers to head for the exits. One person was taken to UPMC Mercy with a leg injury.

One patron told the paper that he doubted other moviegoers would have reacted with such fear were it not for Friday's shooting deaths in the Aurora theater. "It would've just been a fight at The Waterfront, which I'm sure has happened before," he said.


In Southern California Sunday, a man at an afternoon showing of "Dark Knight Rises" was arrested after witnesses said he made threats and alluded to the Colorado shooting when the movie didn't start.

Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies were called to a cinema complex in Norwalk after moviegoers said 52-year-old Clark Tabor shouted: "I should go off like in Colorado." They said he then asked: "Does anybody have a gun?"

A security guard saw Tabor with a backpack on his knees in the second row, but deputies who searched the bag, the theater and its surrounding area did not find any weapon.

Tabor was being held on $50,000 bail.

Moviegoers in Sierra Visa, Ariz., panicked when a man who appeared intoxicated was confronted during a showing of the movie. The Cochise County Sheriff's office said it caused "mass hysteria," and about 50 people fled the theater.

Michael William Borboa, 27, was arrested on suspicion of disorderly conduct, and threatening and intimidating.

And in Maine one man was arrested when he told authorities that he was on his way to shoot a former employer a day after watching "The Dark Knight Rises," state police said.

Timothy Courtois of Biddeford, Me., had been stopped for speeding, and a police search of his car found an AK-47 assault weapon, four handguns, ammunition and news clippings about the mass shooting that left 12 people dead early Friday, authorities said.


Despite some jitters over the horrific shooting, moviegoers around the U.S. still flocked to theaters to see the film, which was the final installment of the phenomenally successful Batman trilogy.

Warner Bros. reported that the movie brought in $160.9 million over the weekend, making it the third-highest opening weekend ever, after "The Avengers" and "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 2," and the highest ever for a non-3-D movie.

