
Benefits of spiritual partnership

by Paulo Coelho on July 13, 2012

by Gary Zugav

The benefits of spiritual partnership are the highest goals that you can reach for, such as freedom from fear, and also the most grounded, pragmatic, and useful tools that you can develop, such as how to use power struggles to grow spiritually. All the benefits of spiritual partnership are interconnected, and each leads to others. Here are some.

Love for Yourself. Love is a state of being. It is not an emotion or response. You cannot create Love, but you can experience it, and when you do it envelopes you. You cannot love one person or one thing more than another. Love makes all things precious, including you. It eliminates all constraints. Love is without limits, conditions, judgments, and hidden agendas.

Meaning and Purpose. Traveling in the direction that your soul wants to go fills you with meaning. Traveling in other directions diminishes meaning in your life. Traveling in the opposite direction empties your life of meaning. The intentions of harmony, cooperation, sharing, and reverence for Life take you exactly where your soul wants to go—toward people, Life, health, fulfillment instead of satisfaction, and joy instead of happiness.

Real Courage. Courage enables action when a frightened part of your personality is active. Some courageous actions are noble, such as risking injury to save another, and some are not, such as attempting to impress others (pursue external power) by doing something dangerous. Fear generates courage when you challenge frightened parts of your personality in order to be accepted, admired, or successful. Love generates courage when you challenge a frightened part of your personality in order to benefi t another or to create authentic power. That is real courage.

Ability to Use Dramas and Tragedies to Grow Spiritually. “Dramas” and “tragedies” are experiences of frightened parts of the personality. When you say, “What a tragedy this is!” you can more accurately say, “What a fear this is!” When you are immersed in a drama around you or within you, you can detach from it and recognize it as an experience of fear.

Compassion for Yourself and Others. If you are unable to distinguish between frightened and loving parts of your personality, you will not be able to distinguish between frightened and loving parts of other personalities either. A “passion to protect the environment,” for example, may come from love or from fear. When I stood in clearcuts that extended as far as I could see and hated the timber industry, my passion came from fear (powerlessness). When I am grateful for Mother Earth, my life, and awed by the exquisitely beautiful and delicate ecology around me, my passion comes from love.

(Condensed from “Spiritual Partnership”. To read more about each item, please CLICK HERE)




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Elaine July 26, 2012 at 4:01 pm
I read this this morning and thought about this post:

As we live on earth we must walk in faith, nothing doubting. When the journey becomes seemingly unbearable, we can take comfort in the words of the Lord: “I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will heal thee.” Some of the healing may take place in another world. We may never know why some things happen in this life. The reason for some of our suffering is known only to the Lord. — J. E. Faust



Nelly Nazario July 23, 2012 at 8:27 pm
Que lindo artículo. Me encantó. El amor por ti mismo es el primero que tenemos que practicar.



Jane Stewart (Dances With Crayons) July 18, 2012 at 9:30 pm
Almost half finished listening to this book. Inspired!
Especially moved by the tenderness, nurturing, and could visualize the analogy of the cave, coming out of the cave, living in the light.

Yesterday I was clever, so I wanted to change the world. Today I am wise, so I am changing myself. – Rumi
There is nothing like returning to a place that remains unchanged to find the ways in which you yourself have altered. – Nelson Mandela

Thankyou, Love to All,
Jane



Pandora July 15, 2012 at 11:09 pm
I was reading William Blake’s : Jerusalem, The Emanation of The Giant Albion the other day, and this passage caught my eye:

In Heaven Love begets Love: but Fear is the Parent of Earthly Love!
And he who will not bend to Love must be subdu’d by Fear.

His work was visionary, although he was entirely misunderstood during his lifetime and the then critics thought his work the ravings of a madman, but it didn’t deter him and sixteen years later with over 100 illuminated illustrated plates, acting wholly from Love, with very little support he fulfilled his dream … and is now immortalised as a genius.

He created Love through his work, as you and anyone that has the courage to share the genuine love of their work for the benefit of mankind.

Thank you.



Kealan July 15, 2012 at 5:54 pm
One of this things I have learned recently is that it is better to have experienced the search of spirituality, understanding, wisdom etc. in life – then to have never set sail on the journey.



Sonia Vianna Landeo July 15, 2012 at 4:32 pm
Paulo! Nessa foto você está simplesmente lindo, de portas abertas da alma, que estranha sensação, de me emocionar, enfim…



LoveM July 15, 2012 at 1:20 pm
With each partnership
One needs to be conscious of
What Sea one’s sailing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annie July 15, 2012 at 11:33 pm
Aye Aye captain
wonderful to be on board
the Sea is always here
awaiting
to see our ship get on shore

Love and Gratitude
Annie

LoveM July 16, 2012 at 10:54 pm
Shipmate Annie..
Gla’d you are aboard
Who’d go to sea without you
They’d be all at sea…
Sea Sea Senorita..

LoveM July 15, 2012 at 1:02 pm
Go on…have a hug
It brings your hearts together
So deeply touching

Riding donkey mind
To the door of your heart then
Alight to enter

We are on the crest
Of this astonishing wave
Creature consciousness



LoveM July 15, 2012 at 12:54 pm
Warm wind in your sail
On the sea of consciousness
Chubby cheerful heart.

…… /| )
-__/ | ♥)___
| .. o .. o .. /
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Nelly Nazario July 14, 2012 at 6:50 pm
Que lindo artículo. Lleno de esperanza



RaRo Orar July 14, 2012 at 11:08 am
It’s a double Masters.
I am back to studies. :)



Corina July 14, 2012 at 8:11 am
But what is to be done when LOVE triks you?
Can GOD let someone to play with souls?



Danielle July 17, 2012 at 8:40 pm
I believe God does not ever let someone play with your soul. We allow people to do that ourselves. But when we are strong enough, courageous enough to draw a line and say enough is enough, God is always there to guide us further on our way to love. You see, I believe, and I can say this with the experiece I have, that there is someone for everyone in this world. And fear not, because the one you are supposed to be with has already been born…every day, every second drwas you closer to each other…until the right time to meet (again).

Marie-Christine July 14, 2012 at 7:08 am
‘Notre corps est une mini societe en equilibre
…c’est de cet equilibre que depend notre sante, …Le corps peut donc se concevoir comme une societe en equilibre.
..’La maladie rappelle les conflits sociaux, les crises les guerres et les mutations…
Apprehender la maladie comme une sagesse nous permettrait de comprendre que les troubles du monde ne seraient que des maladies porteuses de solutions.’ Dr Olivier Soulier

‘O tempo nao transforma o homen,
O poder da vontade nao transforma o homen.
O omor transforma.’ Paulo Coelho

Le temps ne transforme pas l’homme
Le pouvoir de volonte ne transforme pas l’homme
L’amour transforme.
Oui.
Merci.
Avec amour
Marie-Christine



Marie-Christine July 15, 2012 at 6:53 pm
Thank you Mita
We can learn a lot from Mother Earth and the ecology. I believe it is a good school
Our body certainly can feel the effect of it
With love
Marie-Christine

It is all explained in the word Maladies for me
Maladies – mal a dies
Mal upside down is L”ame – the soul’
l.’ame dies – the soul dies

Psalmbody July 14, 2012 at 6:52 am
P(e)ace and Love, partners.


Paula Schaustz July 14, 2012 at 1:35 am
Obrigada Paulo.
Tenho aprendido MUITO com vc!
Às vezes a rotina diária nos impede de pensar em coisas tão simples, porém tão importantes e tão grandiosas. E é através de você que eu consigo resgatar essa magia que a vida insiste em querer apagar. Nunca deixe de escrever.
Estou ansiosa para ler seu novo livro!
Bjos,Paula.


heart July 14, 2012 at 12:10 am
While the Soul to me has to do with our mental/emotional capacities Spirit has to do with our capacity to be in contact with the Divine. Spiritual Partnership therefore is to me any commuted relationship taking the partner towards Divine encounters..


Marie-Christine July 13, 2012 at 11:46 pm
I believe we do not need to look further than our body to find where our fears and loving parts of our personality lies.

‘Our body, a mini-society in equilibrium
From this equilibrium depends our good health.
The body can then been seen as a society in equilibrium.
The illness reminds us of social conflicts , crisis, wars and transformations.
To understand illness as a wisdom would allow us to understand that the troubles of the world could only be illnesses that carry solutions.’ Dr Olivier Soulier

and transformation happens with love.

Marie-Christine


mita July 14, 2012 at 8:30 pm
HI! Marie Christine your example of body with society is very much reasonable. . I get fresh cool clear smell of mother earth from your writting. Keep it up ,Thank you .

Marie-christine Grimard July 13, 2012 at 10:20 pm
Yes my passion comes from Love
Always
Each day I have lived
Every day i Will live
Since the first second and after the last
My passion for Life comes from Love
Love is my path my breath and my blood .


Marie-christine Grimard July 13, 2012 at 10:18 pm
Yes my passion comes from Love
Always
Each day I have lived
Every day i Will live
Since the first second and after the last
My passion for Life comes from Love
Love is my


Annie July 13, 2012 at 9:04 pm
A friend saw your blog, and asked WHAT is spiritual partnership, so that you speak of the benefits of it.
So I think it is efficient to put this link:
it explains what is spiritual partnership, who are the spiritual partners..
http://www.theworkbook.org/Spiritual%20Partnership.htm

Love and Gratitude
Annie


Shine July 13, 2012 at 5:45 pm
Thanks Paulo for sharing such a nice article. You really give me hope and smile to keep walking. Thank you so much. Love Avantika


Annie July 13, 2012 at 4:37 pm
‘you cannot love one thing or person more than another ‘
Yes!!
I stopped saying ‘ilove you very much’ anymore.. The quantity implies that another U love less and smoother more..
Saying ‘i love you’ says it all..

Love and gratitude
Annie


Annie July 13, 2012 at 4:47 pm
Edit: not smoother..i wonder how my phone came up with that.
Meant another,of course..:D

Olta Canka July 13, 2012 at 1:41 pm
VERY IMPORTANT: distinguishing passion coming from fear from passion coming from love.
It makes a big difference in every step you make in your life.

:)


eleonora July 13, 2012 at 11:29 am
proviene dall’amore…si dall’AMORE


mita July 13, 2012 at 11:01 am
sir, Nice post, I came to now about the fear part and loving part of our soul. Obviously you know about HIGGS BOSON existence in quantum physics either it is called God particle. in quantum physics some experiment in same situation get solved but some do not.WHY? No body can explain.So what ever will be happen no body can predict, Whatever predicted any time it can be changed.
Thank you.


Belmusashi July 13, 2012 at 10:50 am
Master Paulo Coelho,
I do respect you and your spiritual ability of bringing all this knowledge from the bottom of your soul.
I just finish reading the “Benefits of spiritual partnership” and, I could not let it go withou saying a word of appreciation to what you wrote: IT IS VERY SPIRITUAL……. Please keep writing and never stop we need you.
Regards,
Belmusashi


Jane Stewart (Dances With Crayons) July 13, 2012 at 8:10 am
Thankyou,
gardening for the soul. Fragrance. Home.
Love,
Jane


Ronak Baldha July 13, 2012 at 5:37 am
Refreshing! Most would think of this post as something that can help only the troubled but it helps to go from good to better, not from bad to good!



