
24
July
2012
10 Photos From Memorial Day: Astoria, Seaside, and Portland

It’s grey in Seattle. And chilly. I’m sitting here in my office, contemplating grabbing a sweater.

For the record, I’m already wearing jeans and a t-shirt. But it’s in the high sixties in here, and I have goosebumps. It’s out of sheer stubbornness that I don’t grab a cardigan, because it is July, and that sort of thing is just not acceptable for this time of year.

Indeed, it hasn’t been the most summery of summers.

Supposedly Memorial Day weekend was nice, but Rand and I weren’t here for that. Instead, we popped down to Oregon, and spent that weekend in Portland and Astoria, where it was – you guessed it – chilly and grey.

But I don’t need the sun to have fun. These pictures are proof of that.

They are also proof that my husband in the cutest thing in the world. As though there was any doubt.

 

    Driving to Astoria (road near Longview, WA).

    Fact: there is sunshine right up until you get too close to Astoria.

    - 
    Old wooden pillars in the harbor, Astoria.
    Astoria Harbor

    Notice the aforementioned grey skies.

    -
    Flower bouquets, Astoria Sunday Market.

    Let’s ignore the fact that these flowers managed to grow in a state devoid of sunshine and instead focus on the fact that they’re only $3.

    -
    Rand the Explorer, walking the boardwalk in Seaside, OR.

    CUTEST. THING. EVER. Just like I said he was.

    -
    Old bottles, Phog Bounders Antique Mall, Astoria.

    You know it’s going to be a good night when your drink options include Alka-Time, Shetek, and something with a huge potato and the word ‘IDAHO’ printed across it.

    -
    Roasted lamb platter, Drina Daisy Restaurant, Astoria.

    - 
    “Mattress Bargains” window display, Astoria.

    I applaud their enthusiasm and use of pink toy ponies, but WHITHER THE MATTRESSES?

    - 
    Rand being frigging adorable, Portland.

    Our friend’s two-year-old was waving to him from the loft inside the restaurant. He replied in kind.

    - 
    View from the rooftop deck of the Hotel Elliott, Astoria.

    “HEY, YOU GUYS!!!! … I CAN SEE WASHINGTON FROM HERE!”

    -
     Obligatory kissing photo, on the road to Astoria, OR.

    Obligatory nauseatingly cute caption: it was grey and rainy right up until he kissed me.





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





    24. Jul, 2012 / CatCatAttack says:

    You’re hogging all the cold weather. It’s so steamy in the Southeast I’ve been considering removing too many layers, but apparently this is also unacceptable.
    Anyone who doesn’t care about looking silly in public to make a kid happy is A-OK.

   
    24. Jul, 2012 / Patricia GW says:

    Absolutely lovely, Geraldine :) Hope your head is feeling better.

   
    24. Jul, 2012 / Yrina says:

    You both are the Cutest Thing Ever. It reminds me of my husband and I, and that’s just one of the many reasons I Love your blog!

    
    24. Jul, 2012 / Suchitra says:

    ha! u are back to normal! obligatory photos and overly sweet comments about the hubby!

    
    24. Jul, 2012 / Jen says:

    Trade you weather? Here in the Midwest we have drought (it’s official: they announced it on The News) & temps over 100 most days of the week. At least with the lack of rain, the humidity hasn’t been as bad this year. Bright sides!

    
    24. Jul, 2012 / Catherine says:

    That photo of your friends is awesome – love how much excitement there is in that greeting

    
    24. Jul, 2012 / The Gastrognome says:

    I give up. Please explain to me what the hell is going on on that lamb platter.

    

    Katamal Reply:
    July 25th, 2012 at 1:58 am

    Yes, I was wondering that too … platter, salad, fruit salad … ?

    
    24. Jul, 2012 / Nicole says:

    I cannot even handle how adorable you and Rand are! I’m sure you get buckets of annoying travel recommendations, but I’d LOVE to see some Cannon Beach on here. Specifically Bill’s Tavern and your take on the terrifying Tiki Masks surrounding the bar. Being from Spokane (which I can’t apologize enough for) and having a 10 month old hurricane for a child, I clearly don’t get out much. But when we do, OOOOH WHEN WE DO!, we go to Cannon Beach. Just as grey and rainy as Astoria but with big rocks!

    
    25. Jul, 2012 / TheOtherLisa says:

    I adore your obligatory kissing photos. Never stop posting them.

    
    25. Jul, 2012 / cheshire93 says:

    Don’t worry it’s grey and rainy for me too, although in my case it’s seasonally appropriate. It’s winter and I’m in Australia, you see. Loving your blog, and yeah just like everyone else has said, you two are cute.

    
    26. Jul, 2012 / cosmoHalliton says:

    My first thought on seeing the lamb platter was where’s the lamb? As an aside, are you familiar with the song “And Then He Kissed Me” by The Crystals? (It played in opening scene of the 80′s classic Adventures in Babysitting.) It could be your theme song!

    
    26. Jul, 2012 / Laura says:

    #4 – it’s not a boardwalk in Seaside, it’s a prom! Sorry…can’t let that slide. Did you see my mom?

   
    26. Jul, 2012 / Brianna says:

    Not Martha never fails to send me to cool places on the internet. I’ve been going through your blog and chuckling to myself all morning. Sorry to hear about Steve. Steve can be a real asshole. Glad you are on the mend and I look forward to reading more of your writing.

    P.S. I clicked over from Not Martha because we are moving to Portland in a couple of weeks and I just got a job that will require some time in Astoria. When I am not working and/or looking for pirate booty I will be exploring those antique shops. So thanks.



