
How to Lose 100 Pounds on The Slow-Carb Diet – Real Pics and Stories 385 Comments

Written by Tim Ferriss



I find writing very, very difficult.

While on book deadline (right now, for instance), I suffer dramatic ups and downs. In my darkest hours, I re-read reader success stories that have been sent to me. It makes the entire rollercoaster worth it.

This post will detail how readers have lost well over 100 pounds on The Slow-Carb Diet®. It was sparked by an email I received a few weeks ago:

    “I just wanted to sincerely thank Tim for taking the time to research and write The 4-Hour Body. My mom, in her late 60′s, lost 45 lbs and got off her high blood pressure meds that she had been on for 20+ years. She did all this in about 3 months. This means that I get to have her around for a long time.”

Anyone can lose hope, and many people do when trying to lose weight. The Slow-Carb Diet (SCD) works almost beyond belief, and it affects much more than appearance. The basic rules are simple:

    Rule #1: Avoid “white” starchy carbohydrates (or those that can be white). This means all bread, pasta, rice, potatoes, and grains. If you have to ask, don’t eat it.
    Rule #2: Eat the same few meals over and over again, especially for breakfast and lunch. You already do this; you’re just picking new default meals.
    Rule #3: Don’t drink calories. Exception: 1-2 glasses of dry red wine per night is allowed.
    Rule #4: Don’t eat fruit. (Fructose –> glycerol phosphate –> more bodyfat, more or less.) Avocado and tomatoes are excepted.
    Rule #5: Take one day off per week and go nuts. I choose and recommend Saturday.

Comprehensive step-by-step details, including Q&As and troubleshooting, can be found in The 4-Hour Body, but the above outline is often enough to lose 20 pounds in a month, drop two clothing sizes, or more.

The SCD works for both women and men. Maria Rider (pictured below) is over 40 years of age and a mother. As she put it to me, she’d always been “the heavy mom.” Now she’s seen differently: “I haven’t seen this weight since my college years! I just wish you’d written the book 20 years ago!”

Last we spoke, she had dropped from 247 pounds to 122 pounds, for a loss thus far of 125 pounds. Her husband has also lost 56 pounds.

The SCD is also effective for going from “normal” to very, very fit, as MP shows:







The same exact rules apply. No differences whatsoever.

—-

Next, we’ll meet Ricardo A, in depth. Ricardo first reached out to me via email. It began with…

    I cannot put into words the great gift you have given me. “[The Slow-Carb Diet is]…intended to be effective, not fun.” As soon as I read those words, I knew I had to give the slow carb diet a try. 210 days later, I haven’t looked back. The change has been incredible. Not just my weight, but my outlook on life. I have followed your instructions to the letter…”

Below, in Ricardo’s own words, is what happens when you follow SCD to the letter.
Ricardo’s Story

AN INTRODUCTION

People always ask me what moment led me to lose over 150 pounds in 9 months on the Slow Carb Diet (SCD).

I crack a smile when I get asked. Unlike some, who can pinpoint one moment in time which defined the start of their journey, I have three “moments” that immediately come to mind.

The first was months before I started the SCD in August of 2011. It was when I realized that overweight people on TV, told they would die because of their weight, weighed less than I did.

The second moment was the day I got my gym membership card. Instead of it prominently featuring my face, my whole midsection was featured, slumping over the chair.

The third moment, which happened just days before I began the SCD, was when a good friend told me that in order to effectuate positive change in your life, you need strength and guidance. You can acquire strength with discipline and will power, but guidance, well, that’s where Tim comes in.

I recall reading headlines in August that Amazon had just signed its first author for a new publishing arm. Not knowing who Tim Ferriss was, I did some research and found a Gizmodo article. I was at the grocery store that day with my shopping list and began the SCD the very next morning. During my first few days, I was pleasantly surprised to find content and support readily available online, and how much personal feedback Tim would give via his blog. He not only provided you with a plan, but was right there with you when you had any doubts. Tim provided that little push that got me going.

How far I went then was entirely up to me.

LIFE AND STYLE

“It’s a lifestyle, not a diet.”

This is the best answer I can conjure when asked about my success on the SCD. I truly took Tim’s mantra of keeping it simple to heart. Being able to plan all of my meals ahead of time removes not only stress, but also the guilt associated with eating unhealthy foods. My previous “meal plan” consisted of eating junk food three times a day and constant snacking. Not a day would go by without having dessert, consisting of either a pint of rich ice cream or bag of cookies. Looking back, I can easy understand how I got to 410 pounds.

I have been overweight my entire life.

Whenever I managed to lose weight, I’d gain it all back. I had been open to the idea of dieting for some time but found diets too hard to follow. I would start one, and as soon as I cheated or ate incompliant foods, I would give up. This is why I knew the SCD was something I had to try. How could I pass up losing weight while not only being allowed to “cheat”, but being required to do so for an entire day out of the week?

Months after starting the SCD, I ran into an article in the UK’s Daily Mail explaining the science behind postponing eating, which further reinforced the science behind cheat day on the SCD. This, coupled with the outstanding community aspect (via blogs and personal websites), has led to my success and high compliancy rate (over 90% complaint in the past 9 months). I don’t snack, and I only drink unsweetened iced tea and black coffee. I also drink at least a gallon of water a day.

MEAL PLAN ON THE SCD — WHAT HAS WORKED FOR ME

I eat three meals a day.

- Breakfast, which I have no later than an hour after waking up.
- Lunch, which comes at least 4 hours after breakfast.
- Dinner, which is anywhere from 6-8 hours after lunch.

A typical day would look like this:

Breakfast: 8 ounces of egg whites and one whole jumbo organic egg; black beans (canned and unsalted); and steamed cauliflower.
Lunch: ½ pound of vegetarian fed tri-tip steak from trader joes; black beans (canned and unsalted); and steamed cauliflower.
Dinner: frozen chicken thighs (cooked on boiling water until thawed then fried with olive oil); black beans (canned and unsalted); and steamed cauliflower.

When I don’t have time to cook at home, I either get a chicken bowl from Chipotle (no dairy or corn) or order a carne asada (grilled steak) plate at my local burrito shop, which consists of steak, pinto beans, and a salad (no cheese).

Keeping your meals simple makes failure less likely.

CONCLUSION

Based on my experience on the SCD, the only advice I can give you is to stick with it. Your time is now. Don’t make a big fuss about it, and don’t tell it to the mountain. Keep it on the down-low for the first few weeks. This is a personal journey, and success will entirely depend on you. Tim has given you all the tools; now it’s up to you to put them to work. Keep it simple, and if you have to ask, don’t eat it. Save it for your cheat day.

I started the SCD on a Wednesday and did not have my first cheat day until the second Saturday. I invite you to take the “Wednesday Challenge” and do the same. This will give you a head start and allow you to build up will-power.

I still carry the gym membership photo in my wallet every day.

It’s constant motivation to keep at it… to continue on this wonderful, albeit challenging, journey.

I did my part, building the strength through discipline and will power to succeed on the SCD. But without Tim’s guidance, I would not be here telling you my story. Seek strength. Seek guidance.

My name is Ricardo, I am 31-years old, and I’ve lost more than 150 pounds on the SCD. Thank you, Tim.
Afterword from Tim

First of all, thank you, Ricardo. Sincere thanks to all of you who read what I write.

And congratulations to all who’ve made it happen!

Armed with a basic overview of the SCD and a supportive online community (like 4HBTalk), Ricardo lost 150 pounds. Similarly, the others above took a basic plan and put it into practice.

Now, I ask a small favor:

1. If you’re trying to lose fat, commit to testing The Slow-Carb Diet for two weeks starting this Wednesday. Read the above, perhaps consider The 4-Hour Body, and just get started. Put it on the calendar and make it happen.

2. If you’ve lost weight on The Slow-Carb Diet, please fill out the below! It’ll take 10 seconds and help me gather valuable data. Thank you in advance:

3. Last, if you know someone who needs (or wants) to lose weight, please tell them about Slow-Carb somehow.

I don’t care at all if they buy the book or not. The Gizmodo article and other blog links can do a great job. I’ve seen the tremendous difference it can make in the lives of entire families, not just individuals. Whether it’s life-or-death or just looking better in jeans, if you know someone who can benefit, please pass it on.

Thank you for reading, everyone, and have a wonderful week.

If you have any Slow-Carb stories (or before-and-after pics), I’d absolutely love to see them in the comments! They would truly make my summer, which is going to be a tough one…



@#$%^&*() COMMENTS



Tim Ferriss — June 24th, 2012, 11:39 pm

Greetings!


    Erin — June 25th, 2012, 12:21 am

    Hi Tim,
    Great article- love to constantly read the success stories! I have read all your books so am a big fan :) I actually started my muse company Zen Green Tea from an idea in 4 hr body- Green Tea! ha ha I have begun importing and selling Matcha green tea powder in Australia and I know its popularity probably has stemmed from 4HB fans looking for a cheaper way to get their green tea intake in PAGG without the expensive capsule prices! Best of luck with your writing- whatever you are struggling with just persevere and you will get there.. after all you are Tim Ferriss!


    Holly — June 25th, 2012, 3:57 am

    This diet really works-though I dont strictly follow it now-I did use it to get rid of 10 pounds after having my baby. I swear I followed it for 2 weeks and the weight came off and has stayed off! Its effective and fast. Like Tim says its not fun, but its effective and that’s what I was looking for!





shua Curry — June 25th, 2012, 7:07 am

http://i45.tinypic.com/ezpkxz.jpg

Started the SCD as my new years resolution for 2012. Part of my plan, I don’t eat any beans, but I do eat a good amount of almonds. I also never gave myself a ‘cheat’ day once a week, but I do a carb binge every ten pounds lost. I have not incorporated much exercise into the lifestyle, but I will soon. I do drink some diet soda and sugar free red bull, to keep the engines running, but I do also drink a good amount of water as well. I take a good multivitamin in the morning, along with Seanol. Coffee and a low-sugar Atkins shake in the morning, and usually some sort of meat for dinner & lunch, either turkey or chicken. Occasionally beef, but it is a high calorie dense food. Sixty pounds gone as of June 2012! Even though my personal life has had some recent downturns, I’m still sticking with it and loving the results! Very happy!

-Josh Curry


    Kafi — June 25th, 2012, 10:29 am

    Hey Josh, I do not like beans at all!!! So I’ve been wondering what I could use to substitute to make up the calories. What have you been eating?


    Vickye Lowry — June 27th, 2012, 5:02 pm

    Hi Josh. What about cheese? Does it have to be on the “crazy” day or can you eat cheese with meals or snacks?

    I am just starting.
    Thanks,
    Vickye


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:15 pm

    Kafi – I don’t eat any beans and I get plenty of calories! I do bacon, eggs, guac for breakfast – meat and veggies for lunch, meat and veggies for dinner.

    If you need to supplement between meals, nut butters are good – peanut, sunflower, almond, etc.




    Maia — June 25th, 2012, 9:02 am

    Hi Tim,

    Did the SCD before my wedding day and, successfully lost weight. Now I’m telling everyone about it. Just a quick question, is it necessary to maintain the SCD for the rest of your life, or can you sprinkle in some fruits and whole grains during the week once you’ve achieved your weight goal?

    Thanks


        Farid Behnia — June 28th, 2012, 2:09 pm

        The fructose will hurt the insuline sensitivity you have developed but feel free to experiment for four weeks.


        Rodrigo — July 20th, 2012, 11:13 pm

        it’s ok if you wanna add some fruits and whole meals after you’re at the wright you want. It’s good to add some exercise too, so in that way you’ll maintain your weight with a lot of health.


    Jay Veltz — June 25th, 2012, 10:54 am

    Tim,

    Thanks for the post. It is now 18 months since I first adopted the SCD. I can not tell you enough how different life is on this side: from more energy to more self esteem to seemingly more business opportunities than I can handle. Not to mention text book abs every time I look in the mirror I documented all my meals and progress on my BB.com bodyspace – you can check out the journey here: http://bodyspace.bodybuilding.com/jveltz/

    I started the slow carb diet in January 2010 when the book first came out. I immediately lost 30 lbs in the first 12 weeks. Dropping my body fat from 30 % to about 18%. I’m now down 46 lbs (all fat) and my body fat has stabilized at a lean 10%. The best part is that after I reached my goal I added a second cheat day on the weekend and this has seemed to stabilize my weight. I follow the SCD to the letter M-F and then its rules off for the whole weekend !

    I started SCD with more than just a weight loss goal. I wanted to get into the best shape of my life (I turned 40 last year and wanted this far more than a red BMW.) Now Im looking


        Farid Behnia — June 28th, 2012, 2:39 pm

        Good job!


    Paulie — June 25th, 2012, 12:13 pm

    I really like the SCD! But I workout 6 days a week and have training for endurance events. My problem is I don’t have enough energy now. Example on 6 mile run the other day, after 3 miles I was done, I had to walk back to the gym. Can you recommend adjusts to accommodate my activity level. The reason I’m using this diet is because I’m still overweight. My body fat is at 23% and would like to get it down to 15%. I have lost 42 lbs this year, doing my own this thing. I was trying to be more scientific about my diet because its harder to lose weight now!


        Gary — June 25th, 2012, 1:05 pm

        You need to train your body to use fat for fuel. Try running shorter distances after fasting 10-12 hours, then incrementally increase the distance, and dont eat gels etc while training.


        Mary — June 26th, 2012, 3:06 am

        For those that lack integrals some vitamin B12.
        It will give you the energy boost you need.


        Graham — July 6th, 2012, 5:55 pm

        Gary is right – you have to transition to fat burning metabolism. If you get your biochemistry set up to burn fat (a superior source of energy), then you will actually have more energy as opposed to less.


    Lily Christian — June 25th, 2012, 2:56 pm

    Hi Tim,
    I really appreciate the awareness and energy that you bring to food, eating, body image, and exercise in 4HB. We live in an extreme culture and I appreciate your attempt to bring health to the masses.

    What is missing for me in your “lifestyle design” is relationship. We are animals that live in packs, we have friends, lovers, professional colleagues; we deal with in-laws, children and their friends. Being “in” relationship is one of the trickiest challenges of being human. . . and though I love your energy around eating well, fitness, weight loss, and even the 15 minute orgasm, there is something inherently sensitive and vulnerable missing from your work – the acknowledgment that you are inherently in contact and interaction with others and that influences your essential sense of self.

    Anyway, I have a lot more to say about this, but this seems enough for a public forum.

    Good luck and thank you again for what you offer the field of health.

    ~LILY


    Martin — June 26th, 2012, 2:13 am

    Hello Tim, after writing my address on your facebook about taking a polish 4 hour body I got a weird email from USPS about some problem with package. Is it connection beetween posibility of a gift from you?


        Katie — June 27th, 2012, 6:44 am

        The “USPS” is a virus/malware email (I’ve never opened it up to find out) I get at least one a month, frequently more, in my spam file. If any email you get, even one from a friend: speaks in vague language like that one, or just gives a link or an attachment, assume it is spam. If it’s from a friend tell them to change their password.


    Tracy K. — June 26th, 2012, 7:09 am

    Hi Tim,
    Great article and great book. I was following the 4HB diet for 3 months and found that I would lose weight, but gain it back after the cheat day and not lose it until right before the next cheat day. So basically, I just maintained my weight.

    I have a condition called PCOS and I am insulin resistant, PCOS makes it very difficult for me to lose weight as my body does not process carbohydrates correctly. Do you know if any women with PCOS have had success with the 4HB diet?

    I’m very active (exercise an avg of 5-6 days / week for 45min – 1.5 hrs/day), but I need to lose about 100lbs. I am a data nut, which is why I love your book. I track everything I put into my face and I also track my exercise and I was tracking my sleeping patterns.

    I’ve searched a couple of the 4HB message boards but haven’t found any information about how the 4HB diet works with PCOS. Any advice would be greatly appreciated.

    Thanks for the awesome information!!!


        Ham-Bone — June 27th, 2012, 5:44 am

        A lot of people with PCOS have been succesful with Primal/Paleo diets which are similar to the SCD. Here’s one example. Good luck! http://theprimalparent.com/2011/07/07/an-unconventional-approach-to-pcos-polycystic-ovarian-syndrome/


        Tracy K. — June 27th, 2012, 8:07 am

        Thank you Ham-Bone for that wonderful link. I will look into paleo. I’ve done low carb, but I’m wondering if all the veggies could also be causing issues…the experimentation begins again! :)


    Frank — June 26th, 2012, 8:35 am

    I have a question. after reading your book 4 hour body, on the slow carb diet you said: “”Do the least necessary to trigger a fat-loss cascade of specific hormones,”"

    then went on to mention 20Ibs for 80 seconds.
    not one who works out much, in what way is this employed?


        Graham — July 24th, 2012, 6:24 pm

        Frank,

        The hormonal response he’s talking about includes human growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor, testosterone, and others. These have been shown to increase with as little as 60-90 second of max effort work.

        So if you were to do 10 squats then 10 pushups as many times as you can in, say, 3 minutes, you could get this hormonal response.

        Also, the slow-carb diet, and others like it (paleo, perfect health, SCD, etc.), serve to change your metabolic programming to burn fat first instead of sugar.

        So when you mix slow carb with short, high intensity workouts, you get a double hormonal benefit!


            Frank — July 25th, 2012, 12:16 pm

            ahh! ok, i gotcha. thank you for the response!

    Todd — June 27th, 2012, 12:36 pm

    I lost 30 lbs and have kept it off for going on a year. I’m very healthy, in fact, my blood work which was high chol. high triglycerides was so clean the doc said there was no need to come in for a follow up. As to 4HB, I am interested in setting some advance fitness goals (I’m 43, 5 kids and I want to do some sort of Ultra or adventure race). It was awesome to have a reference source to go to where I could learn how that will be possible. Truly a valuable piece of work Tim, thank you.


    Sergio — June 28th, 2012, 8:02 am

    Why there is no Kindle edition? :/


        Farid Behnia — June 29th, 2012, 5:47 am

        There you go: https://kindle.amazon.com/work/the-4-hour-body-incredible-ebook/B0043LRRPI/B003EI2EH2


    Takahiro — July 1st, 2012, 4:21 pm

    I am enjoying?every article you write.If you have any chance to have a talk here in Japan someday,just inform your fans here.Thank you.


    anna romer — July 2nd, 2012, 11:05 pm

    thank you so much for your advice, your books and this blog. whatever it is that drives you to do the things you do, boy am i grateful. as unfair as it is that you receive a lot of criticism for your efforts, i’m so glad that you don’t let it derail you and your endeavors.
    i look forward to sending you before and after photos.
    thanks again for helping me to improve the quality of my life.
    much appreciated.
    anna


    Dan — July 7th, 2012, 11:07 am

    I don’t think the SCD is that amazing. My wife and I both strictly followed it out of the book for 4 months along with utilizing the PAGG stack and ended up each losing a whopping 2ish pounds. Since then I’ve stopped having eggs everyday for breakfast and have been using more common sense when eating and have lost 15 pounds over the past month. I’ll stick with my results.


        Jamie — July 11th, 2012, 8:02 am

        Body weight is a useless metric in the SCD. Body Fat % on the other hand….


        Dan — July 17th, 2012, 1:08 pm

        @Jamie yet the article title states “how to lose x number of pounds” on this diet, and the closing survey asks how many pounds lost. There is continued emphasis throughout the article on weight loss not body fat reduction.


            Graham — July 24th, 2012, 6:27 pm

            Who cares what is emphasized here? If you’ve only got 15 or so “pounds to lose” then you can stay the same weight but completely change your body.

            It’s not hard to gain 15 lbs. of muscle eating correctly.

    Mike — July 7th, 2012, 4:58 pm

    Tim,

    Your success, creativity, hyper work ethic and freedom are inspirational. After reading your findings, I determined that the key to success with your research relies on the individual’s work ethic.

    You bust your rear-end to create something (muse, etc) and reap the benefits. I have heard far too many critics claim this method is “anti-work.” People fail when they hit a wall and have no idea how to circumvent the obstacle. Thus, they retreat and slander. This type of disheartened people is the same type of people who believe in radical claims like: “get rich quick,” “cure-all pills” or “lose weight fast.” Sadly, many people do not understand that work and perseverance are critical components which unlock freedom/wealth.

    Your scientific-method-like-approach pairs personal ideas to personal gains.

    I normally don’t email or blog, but I wanted to convey my thoughts and kudos. Continue your intrinsic and creative ways, for I look forward to reading more!

    -Mike


    Teresa Pereira — July 8th, 2012, 10:57 am

    Hi Tim,

    I’ve experienced the Slow-carb diet twice…yeah…twice doesn’t sound good but since you are always scientifically researching your projects, I decided to let you know why. Let me asure you that my comment doesn’t have anything to do with those net-freaks that want to cut you off, or your fame and know-how, I’m an honest user of some of your “products” and I know how outliers are sometimes useful regarding science.

    The diet works for me the first 3 weeks, making me loose 8 pounds. It’s not much, I’m really mentally disciplined, and I was not understanding why it stopped working. I made a break of 6 months and tried again. same thing happened and I understood yesterday why.

    I have a spleen condition, hereditary microesferocitose, that causes damages in terms of blood, blood vessels and diggestion. The damages are minor, I can eat everything, don’t have any kind of pain while diggesting, but I bruise easily, my vesicle is out 4 years now (tiny tiny fat stones)…being sometimes tired and anemic are some side effects. The mechanism is: my erythrocytes are different and my spleen doesn’t recognise the old ones, so he finishes some old and new guys. This sometimes causes a minor anemia. My liver and vesicle work harder. I have a tendency to gain weith and cellulite, retain fluids and all that shit.

    I’m almost 30 years now and only now I’m fully understanding how this works and thanks to chinese medicine. That happens because spleen is the most controversial organ in terms of common and chinese medicine. For the west, the spleen has a function of defence and gather all the old erythrocytes. For the chinese, it’s responsible for your body temperatura, energy distribution and is linked both to diggestion and blood.

    For them, the partner organ is the stomach and the diggestion is seen as: food gets in your stomach, gets diggested, the spleen is reponsible for gathering it’s energy, it goes up to the lungs and, trough breathing, it’s spread to the entire body. I wont explain you the diggestion for the west ’cause you already know it.

    There are propper foods for the spleen, sweet ones mainly , not with suggar but with a sweet taste, such as beans, and this was one of the main reasons to do the slow carb diet. The thing is, I need fruist and vitamins because my tendency of loosing important minerals. I need those a lot and the supplements of magnesium and omega 3 weren’t enough. My spleen, stomach and liver are weak and it will take me some weeks to be totally on my feet again.

    So I got sick and I’m now recovering. Had a major flue, allergies, more bruises, bad diggestion, not sleeping, blurred vision, tirednes, lack of appetite, anemia. I saw my doctor befor starting your diet, but the thing is, the occidental doctors don’t know this mechanism, so he said ok, and off I went! That’s why I lost weight on the first weeks, just like you said, and stopped when my spleen and partners were too weak and my body got weak too. Being really determined didn’t help this time, ’cause I should have listened more carefully to my body and stopped. I gues you know sometimes It’s hard to stop, I still have a lot to improve!

    This said, If you ever discover a way to undo this kind of effect, please let me know. My weight is a product not of bad food or choices, but a biological pattern, no I know it. It’s sometimes difficult to really understand what’s hapenning inside us, but I’m glad I did.

    If you need data for research, please let me know.

    Thanks and keep up the good work,
    Teres


    Dollfaiery — July 20th, 2012, 12:15 pm

    Hey
    I like the way you think still.. I’ve been eating only fruits for dinner for the last 3 years (just following my envies!! really) and ok I’m a fat free vegan and I cook almost all things I eat (and no white starch) but still I eat a LOT of fruits all day long and I don’t think to have more body fat than before
    Ok I do a lot of pilates and power yoga but still.. How can you say NOT to eat fruits????????????????????? do you know fruitarians.com ?


    Danny — July 21st, 2012, 9:30 pm

    Those photos are INSPIRING, especially MP’s. Holy cow.

    Tim, I’ve experimented quite a lot with keto-cycling, primal, and paleo diets and I’ve been working in a lot of your SCD principles in recent months. I’ve noticed a slight drop in BF% (yay!) but I can’t understand how amazingly clear my thoughts are on a day-to-day basis.

    The SCD has positively affected my mood in ways I never thought it would. Thank you!


    Gary — July 22nd, 2012, 6:29 pm

    So many people have asked me how I’ve lost the weight (185 > 155: 5’9″) I send them my Evernote summary of “the plan”. I call it the Tim Ferriss plan. Give them you basics and how I follow it on a daily basis along with a link to your book. A few people who were in a weight loss contest with me followed the plan with outstanding results > we crushed the next closest team 15% lost vs 8%. Thank you so much for sharing your experiments with us! Over a year in my new body, never thought I’d be able to redo my body after age 45.


    Dominika — July 23rd, 2012, 3:44 pm

    Tim, you’re doing great researching on your stuff, just ordered your 4-h-workweek-book… i’m honestly troubled by quite many issues, such as PTSD and some Depression issues (for some real tough reasons), i’ve been trying hard, but it just IS hard to unlock it. A friend said lately: snap out of it. Easy to say, hard to find the way. Usually i had the personality of a maker and a creative. Your advices and methods are extremely reasonable and well-thought… please, can you do some research on that issues too? I’m sick of trying with people on and on again, therapyspecialists and i do not know whatelse… your kind of dealing with stuff (i love languages too btw and am quicklearner!) could be of GREAT USE. Best, Dominika :D


    Amanda Alissa — July 28th, 2012, 9:19 am

    Hey Tim,

    This article inspired me to get back on the slow carb band wagon because I really really need to get in awesome shape for the Miss California USA Pageant.

    I am super interested in MP’s results! What kind of workout program was she on? She had to have gotten all of that muscle from somewhere!

    I’ve tried doing from Geek to Freak for 2 months and while I did get stronger, I did not get leaner.

    Please help! Competition in 4 months!

    P.s. I’m a big fan!


        Farid — July 29th, 2012, 12:20 am

        @Amanda:

        Did you do G2F with 30-sec rest between exercises while slow-carbing?

        An alternative is the Perfect Posterior exercises.


        Lyndsay — July 30th, 2012, 6:55 am

        I too am interested in hearing more about MP. Her photos are very inspiring and her before photos look an awful lot like mine do now!! Can we please hear more about MP’s success?


Jared — June 24th, 2012, 11:47 pm

I feel you on those dramatic ups and downs Tim, I’ve been going through the same for the last 3 years, borderline bi-polar, depressive type. Been searching for something to combat depression, Athletic Greens believe it or not has done wonders. Hope you feel better soon, these success stories are amazing!


Kieren H — June 24th, 2012, 11:48 pm

I found that when I did the slow-carb diet, I was lacking in vitamins and minerals. I just felt kinda ‘bleh’, and slow to get up in the morning. Maybe from the lack of fruits, compared to before where I used to eat heaps of fruit (and ok…im guessing maybe I didn’t eat enough veges..).
A good quality multi-vitamin helped out there ;) But I must admit, I’m looking much better now!


    Tim Ferriss — June 24th, 2012, 11:55 pm

    Hi Kieren,

    It’s sometimes because people don’t get enough potassium (good source: avocado) and other electrolytes.

    Hope that helps!

    Tim


        Kieren H — June 24th, 2012, 11:59 pm

        Will try that out also. Cheers!


        Christian — June 25th, 2012, 8:39 am

        Kieren,
        It’s also because you probably have some adrenal fatigue (from your blood sugar handling issues) …as you ‘reboot’ your body to burn fat for energy instead of using glucose all the time you will start to save your adrenals and your energy levels will balance out. I’ve heard some paleo people refer to this as the ‘low carb flu’ it usually last a week to a month in most people depending on your adrenal status and how many carbs you used to consume. remember: cortisol runs gluconeogenesis in the liver…which helps you wake up in the morning…if the adrenals are fatigued..cortisol levels are off hence the ‘need’ to eat a bunch of fruit/coffee to wake up in the morning. Keep your head up, eat those beans for the time being and you’ll pop out the other side a much healthier and slimmer person! Good luck!

        and Tim, good luck with the summer!

        Know this: You have inspired so many people to live better lives (including mine and my brothers) and actually given them the tools to do so. Your a BOSS. Never Never Never Give up. You’re too important to keep changing the world!

        If you start to get the ups and downs..ask ” What would Tim Ferriss do?’ ….(outsource the book? lol just kidding :)

        All the best to all you 4 hour people :)

        - Christian Carroll


        Tim Habenicht — June 26th, 2012, 1:21 pm

        Tim,

        Have you found that while on the slow carb diet, your blood PH level becomes slightly acidic, as opposed to alkaline? I have been on the slow carb diet for a little over a year (not following it to the T exactly, but pretty dang close), and the last 4-5 months, I honestly have felt pretty rotten. My throat hurt, glands in my neck were swollen, and I was tired ALL the time. I mentioned this to a friend and the first thing he said was “I bet your PH level is off.” I knew nothing about it, so I read several articles about it and it turns out that almost ALL of the foods I was eating were acidic, and I completely stopped eating fruit – now I drink 2 tablespoons of Apple Cider Vinegar and 2 apples everyday to add some alkalines. I felt better within two days and my sore throat (that I have literally had for months) is now completely gone. Have you experimented with your blood PH while on the slow carb? It just seems like a very “acidicy” diet for the most part.

        Thanks,
        Tim


Chris — June 24th, 2012, 11:48 pm

Great case studies, Tim. Will there be a similar post for Occam’s Protocol and any readers who have gained significant amounts of muscle?


    Tim Ferriss — June 24th, 2012, 11:54 pm

    Might do one soon. Several readers have actually outpaced me, believe it or not. If you search “Occam’s Protocol” and look for personal blogs, you’ll definitely find some.


    Mads Phikamphon — June 25th, 2012, 5:18 pm

    Following Occam’s Protocol, I gained 5 kg of muscle in 6 weeks.

    In Danish, but you can still look at the pictures, etc. :)
    http://www.genvejen.dk/status-pa-mit-muskeleksperiment-er-det-virkelig-rigtigt-at-jeg-har-taget-naesten-1-kg-muskler-pa-om-ugen/


Benjamin Ficker — June 24th, 2012, 11:49 pm

Great Article! Hope the comments work!


Jason Ford — June 24th, 2012, 11:50 pm

Good lord that is some fantastic success! High five to all those mentioned in the article! Personally I chose the add muscle aspect of the 4HB and gained 10 lbs of lean muscle in 30 days. It was a fantastic experiment that I enjoyed immensely. I was a 150 lb dude who had never been able to gain muscle in my life until following the muscle building protocol for 30 days. The answer… CALORIES! It turns out stuffing myself stupid was the missing key that unlocked muscle growth. And by stuffing myself stupid I mean eating protein like a mofo and getting at least 3,000 calories in per day.

P.S. Getting married in September and have pecs, triceps, and biceps for the first time ever. Hells ya!


Zach — June 24th, 2012, 11:50 pm

Greetings Tim! I’m using the Slow Carb Diet for blood sugar issues and my energy is definitely more stable, don’t need to lose any weight though, anything I should add to prevent that?


Ryan — June 24th, 2012, 11:51 pm

Good read.


Arthur Smith — June 24th, 2012, 11:51 pm

Lots of interesting points! I love Rule #2! The best rule ever!


Luke Parham — June 24th, 2012, 11:53 pm

Hey Tim,

I was just curious as to whether you’d ever talked to or read any of Matt Stone’s stuff about metabolism and diet and what not. Honesty, it seems like you guys agree on a lot so if you’re still actively researching nutrition stuff, he may be a cool guy to talk to. Or maybe not, lol, just a thought. Also, thanks a ton for all your posts. Your books and blog are some of my favorite things to read and really challenge me not to slip into the idea of getting a cushy job and doing nothing much else after graduation. Keep up the good work.

Luke


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:00 pm

    Matt Stone is right on! I feel like Tim is a bit more into how the body look and Stone is more into overall health.

    Personally, I try to dispel the myths from the medical community like Matt does.


Nathan — June 24th, 2012, 11:53 pm

Hi Tim,

Congratulations for inspiring so many people out there to change the quality of their lives.

One of the companies I run is a customisable muesli business and I was wondering what ingredients you’d recommend for a SCB compliant muesli to offer our customers.

Regards,
Nathan


    Farid Behnia (4HB app) — June 25th, 2012, 1:06 am

    Hi Nathan,

    I’m not writing on behalf of Tim but you may get some inspirations from Training 33 Youbar customized by Tim and suggested in the Occam’s overfeeding.

    Great initiative!

    Best,

    Farid


Alex Banayan — June 24th, 2012, 11:56 pm

Amazing– just amazing :)

Can’t thank you enough for the SCD. My entire family is on it (my grandma even cooks according to the SCD at family dinners!).

Thanks again Tim!


Maddie L — June 24th, 2012, 11:57 pm

My biggest regret wasn’t taking official before shots, but just browsing through FB, I can see the difference. 60 lbs lost last year, changed my life.

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fjJ1z01ZmlBxKXDE_OhobuklH7_txWzErVSpUpzWgEE/edit


    Anthony — June 25th, 2012, 12:12 am

    Congrats Maddie, Great result.


    Farid Behnia (4HB app) — June 25th, 2012, 11:08 am

    You’re shining like a star.


Maria Rider (@Akane1) — June 24th, 2012, 11:59 pm

Hi, all! :)

I just want to say that it was a great article definitely. I am totally a HUGE advocate for Tim’s 4 Hour Body and in particular the Slow Carb Diet to any and ALL who ask me. Even if they may not commit to it fully(I TRY to get them to go for 4-6 weeks and see if the lifestyle(yes, Ricardo, it is TRULY not JUST a diet to go on and off of! Preach it, brother!) I ALWAYS tell people this when they start it that if they are on it long enough it TRULY changes your relationship with food and even psychologically as well!

It has TRULY changed MY life and I cannot thank Tim enough for the info. :) 14 months and 125 lbs later and only 7 lbs from my ultimate goal! I plan on hitting it this summer!! So, to ALL You women out there over 40. You moms who think that the slow carbing lifestyle is “just effective for men”? NOPE, I prove that it WILL work for women too! I beat the odds! YOU CAN TOO!

Here are recent photos of me, the most recent in my “Biggest Loser” pose. :)
http://4hbpics.shutterfly.com/pictures/9
Happy Slow Carbing! Good Luck!


    Ricardo — June 26th, 2012, 10:35 pm

    Maria congrats on your success. Thank you for sharing your journey and helping others get on the SCD path. You’re truly an inspiration.


Eduardo Fonseca — June 25th, 2012, 12:05 am

Great post Tim… renewed my motivation on SCD. Thanks!

Eduardo.


Maxim — June 25th, 2012, 12:12 am

Waiting for “How to add 100 pounds of muscle on Occam’s protocol” post… ;)


    Tim Ferriss — June 25th, 2012, 1:51 am

    Eat, eat, eat, eat, eat more, eat even more, drink milk, drink more milk, drink even more milk…. :)


        Eduardo Thomas — June 25th, 2012, 8:18 am

        What about the risk of prostate cancer for drinking too much milk?


        Ali May — June 30th, 2012, 1:01 am

        So cheese is ok??? Have I been depriving myself for no reason????


Patrice — June 25th, 2012, 12:14 am

Hearing the stories and seeing the successes brought on by your books must cheer you up. Sounds like you’re needing to break down the remaining tasks and get on with it… the finishing bits of a project are always the hardest!

Slow carb diet is something I did and it helped me lose 10 pounds. Not that much you might say, but it’s the other things it did which made the biggest difference. I always had hunger pains within 2 hours of eating, getting anxious, irritable and could not focus. Seems carbs was messing up my blood sugar levels (hypoglycemiea), so by helping me minimise carbs, the diet sorted me out. Food is no longer my #1 thought daily, instead its how much fun can I have and what will I achieve today.

Sorting that bit out of my life has meant I can focus on what matters : getting out of low motivation office job (9 days left until I stop being a salaried monkey, I’ve noted down some key steps on my blog, great to realise how far I’ve come) and spend quality time with wife and baby.

Thanks for being an inspiration Tim and good luck with book finish.


Cody Shah — June 25th, 2012, 1:06 am

Tim,
Your book has been extremely helpful to change my life around. I went from waist size 40 inches down to 31 inch right now in span of 4 months [16 kg (35.4 lbs)]. I did lot of experimenting for Slow Carb diet. I am trying intermittent fasting right now. I want to lose last 5% body fat percentage. I am at 13.2% body fat. Thanks to you, I know about various cuisines across the world and am not afraid to try out new things on my cheat day. I am still trying to figure out best vegetarian way to follow Slow carb diet.

Reason I required to do lot of research on my part is
1. I am a vegetarian.
2. Lot of vegetables you mention aren’t available in India.
3. Where I live – there is almost zero access to avocado.
4. I had to semi break 3rd rule (don’t drink calories). I consumed sugarcane juice everyday. Advantages are unbelievable.

Wish List:
I wish you could outline the rules of Occam protocol as properly as you have explained Slow carb diet.


    Gaurav — June 26th, 2012, 1:13 pm

    Hey Cody Shah,

    I am from India too and I’d be glad if you can answer a few questions that I have!

    1. How do you have 30g of Protien in the morning?
    2. What do you have for lunch and dinner, given that rice and chapathi are most common dishes?
    3. How do you measure body fat?

    Thanks for helping out!


        shriti — June 28th, 2012, 12:48 pm

        Hi Gaurav,

        I am from India too and have followed SCD. I followed it for a month and lost 3% body fat. You can have a look at my website to see some India slow card recipes- http://www.4hbcooks.com

        1. You can eat eggs, whey protein, sprouts or you can make daal and drink it as a soup.

        2. You can see most of the recipes on my website and apart from that you can also eat sprouted moth dal, clear soup, salad, any dal and use cauliflower instead of rice.

        3. You can buy Omron body fat monitor on lot of Indian online stores.


Jamie F — June 25th, 2012, 1:17 am

Great work Ricardo, so stoked for you! I’ve been losing heaps of weight and feeling great on the SCD for a bit over a year now but even though I’m cycling my protein sources every month or so I think I’m hitting some allergy problems. Does Tim (or anyone else) have any more advice on avoiding allergies from overeating the same foods or can someone point me in the direction of some trustworthy material on the subject.

Cheers

Jamie F


    Katya Kean — June 25th, 2012, 11:10 am

    Hey Jamie F,
    Many allergies are created by gut inflammation from dysbiosis causing “leaky gut syndrome”. There are many common causes. Antibiotics can leave a gut messed up and allergy-prone for a long, long time. I’ve heard that gluten can do this as well. The third is “sensitizers” found in many personal care products, like perfume, lotion, shampoo. They can sensitize your body to potential allergens.
    So perhaps try a cleanse to wash out any parasites, yeast, or bad bacterial growths, and then take lots of varieties of priobiotics.
    Cutting out gluten for a while can’t hurt.
    And avoid any personal care product that has the word “fragrance” in the Ingredient label. That “catch-all” word can hide hundreds of chemicals, many of which are banned in other countries.
    Hope that helps!


    Ricardo — June 26th, 2012, 10:40 pm

    Thank you Jaime. Obviously consulting an allergy specialist would be ideal. In the meantime keeping a detailed journal of what you eat and your reaction after each meal/day could help you identify what is causing the problem.


Katri Manninen — June 25th, 2012, 1:22 am

Greetings from Finland!

I’ve enjoyed immensely both The 4-Hour-Workweek and The 4-Hour-Body and am looking forward to your next book.

I’m a 37-year-old professional writer who has written 4 feature films, 29 books, over 70 columns to various magazines and over 100 episodes of prime time TV since 1996. And that’s just the published and produced material!

I don’t experience writing ups and downs.

Here’s my secret: Don’t write when you’re feeling bad, only write when you’re feeling good.

THE SHORT VERSION:

1. Don’t even try to write when you’re feeling scared, worried, anxious, stressed etc. — i.e. when your body is feeling tense, uptight, anxious, cold or heavy.

2. Ignore anything you think when you’re feeling scared, worried, anxious, stressed etc. — those feelings tell you that your brain isn’t working properly and therefore you can’t trust your thinking.

3. Don’t confuse laziness for feeling bad — when you’re feeling lazy, your body is relaxed and you think “I don’t feel like writing.” If you’re feeling lazy, trick yourself to writing by telling yourself that you’ll just “look at what you’ve previously written”.

4. Trust your inner wisdom. When you’re feeling relaxed, light and open, your brain works perfectly and you can tap to your “inner wisdom”. You’ll get easily in the flow state and can write amazing stuff in a very little time.

THE LONG VERSION

I’m also a certified transformative coach. I have coached my country’s top business men, members of parliament and was recently asked to coach some of the members of the Finnish Olympic Team.

Our coaching school is based on “three principles” — a model that explains how human experience is created. This is the most practical and time and energy saving model I’ve seen so far. Thanks to this new understanding I’m fearless and virtually stress-free — even though my days are as full as they’ve always been.

Since I don’t waste any time worrying, fearing, trying to control things that I can’t control and trying to fix things I don’t need to fix, I have time to come up with all kinds of fun projects, like Stress-Free Finland 2022 — see my manifesto: http://kutri.net/manifesto .

A few months ago I coached a fellow writer, who was experiencing extreme ups and downs with his writing. Soon it became clear to me what was the main difference between me and him.

1. I don’t even try to write when I’m in a low state of mind — feeling scared, worried, anxious, stressed etc.

Low state of mind is a sign of my body being in a fight or fight mode — and a sign that my frontal lobe is “cut off”. As you probably know, frontal lobe is needed for thinking like a human: seeing a bigger picture and cause and effect, understanding what is right and what is wrong, what’s good and what’s better, imagining the future etc. So when you’re in low state of mind, you’re thinking like a scared animal. Why would you try to think — or write — anything when the smartest part of your brain isn’t working properly?

I also fully ignore anything I think in a low state of mind.

2. I know that my low state of mind passes by quickly if I don’t make a problem out of it.

Just like our body has a capacity to heal itself, our mind does its best to bring us back to the peace of mind (“inner wellbeing”). That’s the state where 2-6 month old babies are most of the time. If we don’t make a problem out of us feeling bad, we’ll get back to higher state of mind quite quickly — sometimes in less than 90 seconds!

You’re NEVER in a low state of mind several hours in a row. If you think you are, it’s just because you didn’t pay attention to those moments when your state of mind returned to neutral or high state of mind.

3. I don’t confuse laziness for low state of mind.

The difference between low state of mind and laziness is that when I’m in a low state of mind, my body feels tense, hard, cold or heavy in bad way — when I’m feeling lazy, my body feels relaxed.
When I’m in a low state of mind, I’m thinking thoughts like “my writing sucks, what if everyone hates this book, what if I can’t write this book, what if I’m an idiot” etc. When I’m feeling lazy, I just think “I should write but I don’t feel like writing.”

If I’m just lazy, here’s a trick I use to put myself in a writing mode: I tell myself that “I’ll just open the document” that I’m supposed to write. I tell myself that “I don’t even have to look at it”. Once I’ve opened the document, I tell myself that “I’m going to quickly glimpse through what I’ve written previously. That’s all…” Until I’ve done that and tell myself that “ok, maybe I’ll just jot down a few ideas for the next chapter…” and before I know it I’m writing again.

4. I trust my inner wisdom.

Have you notice how in “a flow state” the thoughts, words and actions just somehow “flow through” you? As if they were coming from some place else? I call this state my “the Wiser speak through me” -mode. No, I don’t think I’m channeling any spirits, but I do believe that when I’m writing in a high state of mind — while feeling relaxed, open and light — I can access my highest brainpower …and perhaps some kind of universal intelligent too.

I have full faith to this wisdom and that it will help me write the best possible book or screenplay. I trust that I can write better stuff than I think I can.

—

I hope this helped you to get a new perspective to your states of mind and writing — if not, email me. Writing is supposed to be easy and fun — if it feels hard, you’re doing something wrong.

Have fun writing!

Love,
Katri
katri at actusprimus com
twitter: @writivity


    Tim Ferriss — June 25th, 2012, 1:37 am

    Katri, thank you! This is a great and very timely comment.

    Much appreciated :)

    All the best to you and yours,

    Tim


        Katri Manninen — June 25th, 2012, 1:58 am

        Glad to help! Now, put that into action and enjoy the best summer ever! :-)

        Love,
        Katri


    Mark Swedberg — June 25th, 2012, 12:24 pm

    Wow, awesome post! Thanks for the advice, that is really encouraging in just about any situation :)


Steve — June 25th, 2012, 1:29 am

Tim, I m going to gym on a daily basis and I take some
Whey protein also. Can I follow in the same time the SCD?

Thanks


    Tim Ferriss — June 25th, 2012, 1:53 am

    I know many people who do, but you need to ensure adequate caloric intake, especially if doing longer-duration endurance training. In high volume cases, it’s sometimes sensible to add in yams, sweet potatoes, or a post-workout carb like those in the “Ultra-Endurance” chapter in 4HB. For what it’s worth, unless you’re doing it for social or skill-based reasons, daily visits to the gym aren’t typically needed nor desirable.


        Hassan Osman — June 26th, 2012, 8:33 am

        One caveat about Whey Protein for those who want to lose weight:

        I followed SCD to the letter EXCEPT for one thing. Instead of egg whites for breakfast, I drank Whey Protein (32g) every day within 30 minutes of waking up (because I couldn’t stomach 30 grams of egg whites in the morning). Two full weeks on that and I barely lost 1 pound. The following week, I shifted to eating egg whites + some turkey slices for breakfast (by forcing myself), and I lost 5.5 pounds in that week alone. So you might want to keep an eye on how Whey might be affecting you.

        Tim – on another note, I couldn’t believe you, out of all people, find writing very difficult (it just seems like it’s easy). That’s actually comforting to me because I also find writing extremely difficult, and if an international 2-time bestselling author finds it hard, then I have a good excuse :)

        However, I just started reading “Accidental Genius” by Mark Levy (http://www.amazon.com/Accidental-Genius-Writing-Generate-Insight/dp/1605095257) which highlights the power of freewriting techniques and the concepts are just phenomenal (basic idea: vomit your ideas by typing at the speed of thought without any editing filters on; use a kitchen timer to box yourself in; look for nuggets of info later on). Definitely makes writing a lot easier!


            Sean — July 24th, 2012, 12:14 am

            Hey Hassan, you might want to make sure you get a quality whey protein. A A lot of them have things in them (cadmium, etc) that can really set back any weight gaining or losing goals you have.

            Tim:

            So far, after 3 weeks, I’ve gone from 240 to about 225 (my lowest being 221, 225 a day after my refeed). I’ve been following the regular protocol, except I added the apple cider vinegar suggested by one of the comments, with a 4 day a week split and doing kettlebell swings before squats and deadlifts. I think a lot of what I’ve lost is in my legs (noooo!) but my arms have tightened up, and more importantly to me, my waist has shrunk a good inch and a half, most of it in the love handles which I’ve had a lot of problems with. So far no strength loss that I can tell, although I’m doing the eating the elephant part and I’m on week 4 (340×5! What!) so that’ll be the real test.

            I fully appreciate this, and you are the man. I’m working my way through 4HWW, but unfortunately I’m not exactly in a good place to implement most of these (I work for UPS as an unloader, waiting for my time to be a Driver so I can start saving money…) I am trying to rack my brain thinking of ways I can supplement my income, and hoping your book helps out. I’ve given it to my (hopefully) soon to be father in law, however, who actually is running a business and he says he’s getting a lot of stuff cut out and everything seems to be smoother!

            Thanks again!

John "Widgett" Robinson — June 25th, 2012, 2:33 am

I don’t have before and after pictures–nothing organized. Just before and after videos. In fact, that’s what pushed me to get on Slow Carb–I improvise movie reviews while driving home. They all start with me getting into my car, shot from the passenger seat. After having to edit several dozen of these and seeing me do this over time, gut hanging out and looking like the definition of urban megafauna, I just broke and had to do something. And then wound up losing 7.5 inches off my waist via SC. I don’t blot out the sun when starting my reviews now. So excellent.

So want to get inspired to lose some inches? My advice? Have someone film you getting into a car. Worked for me.

P.S. Both parents are on SC at the moment, Tim. Doubt they’re doing supplements but they’re on it. Mom’s 68 and as I mentioned before, Dad’s 70. I’ll keep you posted.


Rose — June 25th, 2012, 2:53 am

Hi Tim

Just wanted to say a big thank you :)

I stumbled across a review of your book online November/December ’11 (might have been New York Times?). Intrigued I decided to learn more about you and the 4 hour body, and decided I would ask my husband and boys to get the book for me as a Christmas present. I had a lot of weight to lose after having my youngest son born June ’11 (and some left over from his older brother the year previous!) and unfortunately had issues with gestational diabetes which meant I was looking at being labelled pre-diabetic post pregnancy (family history of Type 2). I’ve had ups and downs with my weight and my blood sugar levels over the years and never found it easy to lose the weight but always found it easy to pile it on!

On getting the book and choosing the chapters from the “menu”, I loved your energy, commitment to the task at hand, your funny and sometimes frankly crazy mad scientist type experiments. I thought, well if Tim can do it, so can I! So I started on the 6th of January and immediately my sugar levels went back to normal – bye bye diabetes! – and so far I’ve lost 45 pounds and dropped about 2-3 dress sizes. I started off at 229 pounds and am down to 185 this week but I am aiming for 168 pounds and well anything after that is just gravy! I am 5FT 9″, am a big build (am a competitive Masters swimmers so think broad shoulders and big arms/legs). I am feeling and looking healthy again and it’s all thanks to the 4hb. As everyone keeps commenting on it, I am happily spreading the word about it to friends and family and co-workers, anyone who tries it starts to see results immediately!

Best of luck with the writing Tim, hope you get lots of inspiration from the posts as you’ve given us a lot of inspiration too (and a few laughs in the process!).

Slainte!

Rose from Cork, Ireland


    Tim Ferriss — June 25th, 2012, 3:45 am

    Wow — congratulations, Rose! And perhaps I’ll see you in Cork someday. Your hurling team is great!

    :)

    Tim


genie — June 25th, 2012, 2:57 am

the transformations are amazing!Kudos to Patrick ,Maria ,MP an Ricardo .


    Marie-Pier — June 25th, 2012, 5:15 pm

    Thanks!


    Ricardo — June 26th, 2012, 10:42 pm

    Thank you.


Chris Demeyere — June 25th, 2012, 3:12 am

I have lost 11 pounds so far. (5 kilo’s) in about 7 weeks. Not as fast as some other people and I have a long way to go. But it works and that’s more than any other thing i have tried over the years.

I keep a detailed daily log of everything I eat and sometimes I can see a pattern that I can change. For instance, my breakfast used to be a protein shake, but changing that to 3 egg whites and one yolk has really helped.

I’m in it for the long run, and I’m going to finish it.


Dan Bolton — June 25th, 2012, 3:23 am

Tim, thanks for this post.
As someone who started, stopped and have started the diet again this is incredibly encouraging.

Also, In a few words – what’re your thoughts on Crossfit?

Thanks in advance,

Dan


    Tim Ferriss — June 25th, 2012, 3:42 am

    CrossFit is great. I would simply suggest avoiding exercises that produce a disproportionate number of injuries, such as muscle ups. Sure, you *can* do them safely, but accidents are common, and there’s no reason to do them if you can substitute safer options for similar or identical benefits.

    Hope that helps,

    Tim


Michael Gonzalez — June 25th, 2012, 3:34 am

I have lost 20 lb. kettlebell swings FTW!


Danial Khan — June 25th, 2012, 3:52 am

can you have as much alcahol you want on binge day…would it not interfere with fat loss ?….so far I have lost 25 pounds on the slow carb diet but am very hesitant to drink on binge days ?


    Graham — July 25th, 2012, 4:19 am

    Drinking on binge days won’t be that much worse than binging on sugar and processed carbs. Like everything else on here – test it on yourself! You’re the best specimen on which to try it out!

    If you drink and realize you either don’t lose the weight or can’t get yourself back on the plan, then it might not be a good idea. On the flip side, you might find that if you drink on cheat days, you find yourself eating less or you’re happier to not cheat on the rest of the days!


Danial Khan — June 25th, 2012, 3:54 am

sorry for the follow up question as Im not sure its pertinent to this specific blog…how useful would you say sprints are in terms of fat loss say 2 or 3 times a week ??


Eduardo Rocha — June 25th, 2012, 3:55 am

Hello Tim.
I will try the Wednesday Challenge.
Let me see what happen.
I wonder if you have fellow brazilians who did the diet, I need some guidance in the foods here in brazil.

thanks tim!


Jordan — June 25th, 2012, 4:30 am

Tim,

It seems like you’re books take about 12-24 months to kick in for me. I first read 4HWW in 2008, fresh out of high school, working 3rd shift in a factory, while going to community college full time. I quit the factory job 2 days afterwards (‘d worked there for 3 days so far, for a total of 5 days of work).

That was the last job I had. For some reason, even after reading 4HWW money didn’t start showing up in my bank account, which was annoying. But I kept at it anyways.

2 years later I found myself having created a business out of thin air and making a decent income from it, but spending 40-50 hours a week on it and constantly being nervous and anxious about it.

I re-read 4 hour work week and it hit me in the face a lot harder than the first time I read it. It reminded me of all those things I used to imagine doing back when I was a broke college kid (I’ve since dropped out and moved away).

It also inspired me to just take the chance and try approaching my business in a different way. It was really hard because I didn’t want to outsource anything, no one could possibly be as skilled as me, the uneducated college drop out from a small town in Michigan could be.

It was a great lesson to realize that all of the things I had been doing a lovely girl named Christina in the Philippines could do even better for $5/hr.

This made me epic, baller rich, overnight. My income didn’t change. But making $4,000-5,000/month and working 50 hour weeks is $20/hr. Making $5,000/month working 1 hour a week is $1250/hr. Which is what I make now….

On top of that when I “LIBERATED” (the final step) every $ I had became a lot more valuable. I left North Carolina in March and came to Koh Samui, Thailand where I’ve primarily lived for 3 of the past 4 months with a bit of time spent in Singapore, Malaysia, Laos, and also Bangkok/Chiang Mai in Thailand.

I’m leaving here in a few days to go back to Laos (visa expiring) for about a week, and then Vietnam for a week, before I fly to Tokyo for a short stop over and then back to San Francisco for a week.

That’s as many weeks out as I dare to plan but my agenda includes 1-2 months in the states, a few weeks in the caribbean and then in October finally getting to Buenos Aires.

So thanks 4HWW for kicking in finally.

Now… I read 4HB a few months ago (it was way to thick to bring on the road with me unfortunately) I’m hoping it kicks in faster than 4HWW did. It’s showing signs.

For me the big thing for making the food/lifestyle change was to get better reasons. I’ve always been a little heavy, but my reasons for wanting to change that were always negative/low self esteem related. “Maybe if I get into good shape than I’ll be good enough to get a cute girl to sleep with me, or make more money, or like myself”. Those things you never actually vocalize to yourself but are in the subconscious holding you back. So I fixed all that crap, negative thinking a while ago.

My day to day lifestyle now is infinitely better than I ever imagined it could be. I’m happy and enthused to wake up every day, I’ve been living on a tropical island like a king, I have a huge surplus of female companionship with beautiful women, and so on and so forth. I have trouble talking to people back home because when I just chat with them casually about what I’ve been up to in the past few days it sounds like over the top bragging.

Now food/lifestyle changes have become effortless (I’ve lost 18 lbs in the past few weeks with minimal slipups). Because it’s no longer about hopefully losing weight so that I can finally respect myself (like all the failed attempts were for several years). Now I eat SCD foods all the time because they physically make me feel better, I have more energy, less sluggish/fatty days, and I get more done. I also enjoy the way they taste. Thailand has been a good friend in that area since a lot of the local cuisine is very SCD friendly.

For the boring home meals of Chicken/Broccoli/Beans I just don’t even think about it. I prepare a batch each week and kind of mindlessly eat it at meal times if I’m home. If I want to eat out I’ll usually get some sea food. If I really need carbs then I’ll ride down to the gym and slam some weights around for a little while and then go eat some carbs.

Tip for partiers like me: I go out 4-5x/week here and usually drink water (30cents/bottle here) and the awesome thing is outside of all the bars you can find these little cart vendors that sell chicken/beef/pork/shrimp/fish/etc skewers (satay in Thai) with Thai Chili Sauce on them. And their like 60c each. So sip on some water, chat up some birds, and then when you get a bit hungry go buy a huge tray of delicious chicken skewers to snack on for about 5 bucks. Further Tip: Get a local girl to buy them for you and they’ll cost half as much in tourist areas.

I can’t say that all of this is thanks to you, Tim. I did a small amount of the leg work myself. But without ever meeting or speaking you’ve been a long time companion on this journey and I’ll remain in your debt.

Speaking of which… I could use a ride from SFO if you’re around in a couple weeks. I’ll let you know my flight number when I leave Tokyo.

Best,


Skippygirl — June 25th, 2012, 4:33 am

Wow I wish I’d had MP’s results.
I am older than she is, but I was smaller to begin with although much the same shape. I’ve been on SCD for 16 months and lost 6kg in the first 8 weeks, site a few cm, a dress size and then nothing. I cannot get below 65kg for love nor money and I’m still around 30% body fat according to my 2nd DEXA scan. The DEXA says I have 4-7kg more body fat I could lose but I have hacked everything and cannot find the trigger. I’ve been training with a Girevoy KB personal trainer twice a week for nearly a year now, which I love and is great for my all round wellbeing but even my trainer cannot work out why I can’t drop the fat. I track my daily intake in an iPhone app and it never exceeds 1200 cal/day. High protein, low carbs, no junk, water. I’ve tried intermittent fasting, adding coconut oil, bulletproof coffee, gave up the beans entirely, PAGG, no PAGG, more water, everything.
I read a UK study a few months ago that seemed to show some evidence that people can be grouped into a segment they called “super responders” (i.e their bodies go nuts when exercise is added and respond in a huge way with massive results), “average responders” (obvious) and “no responders”. The last group literally did not change physically despite something like 4 hours of cardio a week being introduced per week for all the people in the study. I am much stronger and fitter from the KB training but I am having no response to SCD and the KB training in terms of fat loss.
MP must be a super responder, and I’m clearly a no responder.
The last resort I will try is the Last Mile method from 4HB. However, it’s short term and not sustainable for the rest of my life so I’m assuming I’ll just put the fat back on when I go back to normal SCD.
If anybody has any ideas at all I would welcome them. 48, female, 2 children, how to get 4-7kg of fat off. I’m thinking of posting a reward for the person who finds the trigger.


    Helen — June 25th, 2012, 5:42 am

    Just a thought – maybe you need to eat more. I mean 1200 is low if you’re working out that hard.
    If you’re regularly expending more energy than the fuel you’re taking in, your body goes into retention mode.

    If you up your caloric intake for a few weeks (all healthy choices of course), you’ll have more energy for extended exercise and your body might feel it’s safe to drop a few extra kgs.


        Helen — June 25th, 2012, 5:47 am

        Also I’d suggest you really mix up your exercise. Add in new activities you’ve never done before. It’s amazing how your body adapts to similar workouts.


        Skippygirl — June 26th, 2012, 3:07 am

        Thank you Helen, I can try adding more beans etc back into every meal and see if that triggers some fat loss.


    Maria Rider (@Akane1) — June 25th, 2012, 7:35 am

    Hi, Skippy! Give me an idea of your water intake and meals each day. Perhaps, I can help you crack that stall. I’ve helped numerous others and usually my suggestions due to my experience with slow carb has really helped. I recently increased my water intake from 3L of water to 4L and I drink 30oz of coffee each day. I also eat the same meals each week. This week I’m doing a frittata as my breakfast having had the same breakfast for nearly a year.:) I wish you the best of luck, it CAN be done!


        Skippygirl — June 26th, 2012, 3:20 am

        Thank you Maria and congratulations on your wonderful results.
        Every day I eat the same meals.
        Breakfast is one lean organic bacon rasher trimmed of fat and fried in a little bit of macadamia oil, and an omelette made from one organic egg and 0.5 cup egg whites and fresh spinach leaves, sometimes with mushrooms added, a 1/4 avocado and an espresso coffee with cinnamon. Beforehand I have 500ml water with lemon juice.
        Lunch is always grass fed beef/lamb/chicken/tuna with a huge salad of fresh spinach and lettuce, cucumber, coleslaw with no dressing.
        Dinner is always grass fed steak, chicken, pork, lamb etc with steamed broccoli, beans, carrots and cauliflower.
        I also have a glass of a lovely dry Australian red wine, and a couple of nights a week I’ll have a few squares of 85% cocoa chocolate.
        I drink 1.5 litres of water every day in addition to coffee, a rare diet Coke, and on workout days I have a 100% whey protein shake which uses 250ml water.
        I can’t sustain a higher water intake on a consistent basis. I could do it for a short while though.
        I sleep beautifully well, have no health issues at all, but do sometimes have a lack of energy for kettle bell training (I use mostly the 12kg and 16kg kbs).
        Saturdays I will have a normal omelette breakfast, a cafe latte and something like Thai food for dinner.
        I tried adding some more natural fat for a few weeks (coconut oil and grass-fed butter) and it made no difference.
        I’ve tried no alcohol and no difference.
        I have tried eating more although I really can’t fit any more food in, and no difference.
        I’ve tried not having any cheat meals and no difference.
        I’ve tried massive cheat day binges and put on 2kg which I lost the day before the next cheat day and so stayed the same weight.
        If you could see me, I look like MP does but with a small fat suit over the top. I can feel rock hard abs, quads, glutes etc but they are under a layer of fat so the only definition visible is in my shoulders and biceps, calves and traps.
        Anything you could suggest would be welcome.


    Lain — June 25th, 2012, 8:05 am

    This is similar to my story, but I haven’t tried all you’ve done. I have 10 lbs I need to lose and 10 more I’d love to lose. Only lost 3 lbs in two weeks on SCD- very discouraging. Wonder if it’s just harder for those in the last 20 lb range?


    Heather — June 25th, 2012, 8:27 am

    I don’t think there’s anything in the book about limiting your calories. Especially to 1200 which is low.


    Katya Kean — June 25th, 2012, 11:41 am

    Skippygirl,
    Sometimes birth control pills or naturally high estrogen jack up your cortisol so high, it creates or holds on to fat, especially around the middle. You might consider getting your hormones and cortisol tested, reducing stress in your life if you can, which also boosts cortisol, and researching non-estrogenic foods. Also, avoid Phthalates like the devil.
    Also, try a yeast cleanse. Most women’s systems are a little out of whack because of yeast, especially if they have ever taken antibiotics, although a no-sugar, no-dairy diet should help with that.
    I don’t know your body size, but another possible cause is that if you don’t give your body enough calories, regularly, it holds on to fat because it thinks that it needs to protect you from starvation. Some say that’s a myth, I don’t know.
    There have also been studies showing that your grandmother’s lifestyle before giving birth to your mother could have changed your epigenetics.
    Without knowing your circumstances, that’s all the stabs in the dark I’ve got. =)


        Skippygirl — June 26th, 2012, 3:22 am

        Thank you Katya I’ll look into the things you mention.
        I had my blood work done at the beginning of SCD and everything was perfectly normal according to the GP but I haven’t had it done since so perhaps I should, thanks again.


    Marie-Pier — June 25th, 2012, 5:13 pm

    Hi Skippygirl! This is MP.

    I’ve lost around 20 pounds with SCD over a 2 months period. What helped me the most into transforming my body is the weight training (no cardio whatsoever) and the eating. I ate a lot (around 1500 to / 1800 cal per day) and trained like a guy.

    My focus was to speed up my metabolism instead of dieting. When I was adding some muscles to my frame, there was no significant weight change on the scale but rather in the measurements and in the way my body looked in the mirror. I also had success with the cold baths.

    Carb cycling is also great to shed the extra pounds but I found it quite hard because I lacked too much energy…

    So my tips are “Don’t starve yourself”. Eat well, minimize carbs at dinner. Use cinnamon, pepper, vitamin B and I would also suggest you to rest and relax more, take care of yourself. It’s harder to loose weight when we’re stressed. Enjoy the process, it’s a lifestyle.

    Wish you all the best. Hope you reach your goal!

    MP


        Skippygirl — June 26th, 2012, 3:33 am

        Thanks MP, congratulations on your fantastic results, you do look amazing.

        All I’ve been doing training-wise is the two 45 min sessions of Girevoy kettle bell training each week. I started with the 8kg kb (used to kill me) and now I use the 12kg and 16kg and the trainer really flogs me!

        I believe I actually look like you, except with a small fat suit on top :-) .

        Maybe the calorie intake is indeed the problem. I really can’t stuff any more food in with what I am eating each day, and only tallied the actual calories earlier this year to see what I was actually consuming as requested by the trainer. The amount of food I have is enormous, but maybe I should add back in beans to get more calories again and try to get in 1600 cal for a while.

        I note the suggestion regarding stress and relaxation. Would you believe I sleep at least 9 hours per night, and have regular facials and massages etc. plus the kettle bell training is awesome for stress relief. However I do work a pretty intense job, and maybe stress is still a factor. Maybe having blood work done again would pick something up, thanks for the idea.

        I really appreciate you taking the time to reply, thanks!


        Texas Kel — June 29th, 2012, 12:49 pm

        MP,
        In the photos Tim published, what is the time-frame? I’m curious how long it took you to go from ‘before’ to ‘after’. Thank you so much for giving info on how you did it! You are an inspiration to us all!!

        I’ve lost 20 pounds just by changing my eating. I look good, but I have no muscle definition. I’m now trying to become as ‘cut’ as you are and loose about 5% or more of fat.

        Would you mind giving us your stats? Height, age, weight, muscle, fat?
        Thanks so much!!!


        Marie-Pier — June 29th, 2012, 3:36 pm

        To Texas Kel,

        Thanks for your comment!

        My before picture is from January 2011 and the after picture is from April 2012.

        I first began with the SCD for a few months (also lost 20 pounds). In july 2011, I enrolled in a martial art class. In September, I decided to do weight training, in order to be stronger for my Jujutsu classes. I found the Jamie Eason’s 12 week trainer program on Bodybuilding and started to go to the gym 4 to 6 times per week and lift weight.

        Since February this year, I’m following Kris Gethin’s hardcore trainer.

        I weight 131 lbs at 5’5. I don’t know exactly what is my body fat percentage (around 22% ?). You can see more of my stats in my bodyspace profile. And I’m 29 years old.

        I’ve seen a big difference in the way my body looked after a month or so of weight training. The number on the scale didn’t move but I was much leaner. When I added (on month 2 and 3 of the Jamie Eason’s program) HIIT cardio, carb cycling, PAGG, complex B vitamin, and cool baths, I had major results and it was happening very quickly.

        Hope this help! I wish you good luck with your goal!

        MP


    Alison C. — June 25th, 2012, 9:22 pm

    I am in the same boat as Helen. I’m a mom of two young kids, 42 years old, 150 lbs and 5′ 8″. I started the 4HB a year ago and dropped 15 lbs from 165lbs. I am so incredibly grateful to Tim’s brilliant work in 4HB. It has been liberating and a profound gift (I have tried to get everyone I know to follow the diet). It allows me to eat healthily and well all week long. I don’t get hungry and I don’t obsess terribly about food anymore. I do get excited about it and love to talk about it –I’m very interested in food and weight etc (it is a huge national epidemic after all) but not neurotic (which is huge for me personally). **And** I have fun with food now (once a week of course) which is something I never before experienced. Before I always felt like shit when I allowed myself to eat anything I “shouldn’t.” Now I eat for fun on a regular (scheduled) basis which is so human and so poetic. 4HB has transformed my relationship to food. I’m not frightened of it. I don’t feel like I must track everything I eat in order to maintain my weight. I don’t need to commit (a la weight watchers) to going hungry the rest of my life just to stay where I am. I feel normal. I wear a size 8 and I feel good. However, I would love to go down to 140 lbs. I weigh myself religiously and no matter how hard I try I just can’t get my weight to go down. I sometimes nearly starve myself and it will drop a little (as low as 145lbs) but it pops right back up. I’ve considered juice fasting and the Last Mile method too. But I don’t want to be rash. For now I just keep plugging away. I figure there may come a moment, if I continue to stick to it, where a window will open and I’ll somehow be able to drop a bit more. But what I feel intuitively is that my body is “set” at this weight. I pop up to 154lbs after cheat day, typically, but I drop the added weight in 1-2 days no problem. But I just stay there..between 150 and 147. To try and drop 4-7 pounds beyond that feels like a Jedi mind trick.


Ryan Burkitt — June 25th, 2012, 4:36 am

This came at a good time! I have read the 4HB book about a year ago and I have had good success with the SCD often losing 10+ pounds in a month… however, I haven’t been consistent or taken it on as a ‘lifestyle’ I do it for a while, then go somewhere and don’t have willpower to stick with it, or I am traveling and stop for fast food and then once I am off, I go back to all my bad habits and any weight loss is quickly put back on…

I have been struggling with depression and keep going back to emotional eating…

That was in the past, It is time to suck it up and Just Do IT!!
(I am down 20lbs from my heaviest, I still have about 50 to go)
So… Monday challenge! Here I go!


Allain — June 25th, 2012, 4:51 am

Hi Tim,

Thank you so much for this post. I lost 30lbs from SCD.


AprilH — June 25th, 2012, 5:14 am

I don’t know if this is kosher but it works for me. I’ve never been more than 15 pounds or so overweight, but as a former actress that extra few pounds could have kept me from getting a role. So I use SCD once or twice a year to get myself back to my fighting weight of 120 pounds. If I drop below 120 the boobs start to disappear so I have to stop. The weight slowly comes back, but I always go back to the SCD before I hit 130 pounds. I’m not sure if there are health ramifications associated with cycling in and out of this diet, but doing it this way hasn’t failed me yet! I’ll be 57 next month and am happy to say I haven’t turned into a dumpy middle aged woman (and I plan on keeping it that way)!


Mac — June 25th, 2012, 5:59 am

Love the 4HB however in all the the SCD examples I’ve see it’s usually of those who are obese to begin with. For them doing any diet which cuts out all the processed carbs and crap they’re eating is going to lose loss.

Anyone <20% BF% hardly sees the same 10-20lbs/month losses in fat.

I'm 18% BF% and did the SLC diet for 4 weeks. I saw about 4lbs reduction in fat. But it wasn't until I went on a ketogenic diet with a carb refeed once a week that I began losing 2-4lbs a week.


    Mac — June 25th, 2012, 5:59 am

    SLC = SCD*


Christa Herzog — June 25th, 2012, 6:02 am

Wow, the people who followed your Slow Carb Diet got great results.
The meals are very American. Egg whites – I know you can buy them in the USA, but I rather eat 2 eggs the white and the yolk. I guess that all the beans are to get more protein as beans are high in plant protein.
There are fruits, which are low in sugar, such as apricots. And I would miss a variety of vegetables, because of the vitamins and minerals.
Only when your body gets all necessary nutrients the feeling of satiations comes. This is the main reason that so many people can’t stop eating.


kekePower — June 25th, 2012, 6:41 am

Skippygirl,

I agree with Helen. 1200kcal a day is LOW. My wife is on 1600kcal a day and is losing weight, albeit slowly, she’s still losing weight. She’s really close to her threshold now.
Try going up to 1400-1600kcal a day for a few weeks and let us know the results. I bet you’ll see a change.
Oh! And make those lots of protein. As you know, protein builds muscles and muscles burns fat :-)


    Skippygirl — June 26th, 2012, 3:39 am

    Thanks keke, I think the theme people are highlighting is indeed the calorie level.

    It seems like I eat a mountain of food every day but it doesn’t add up to more than 1200 cal so I’ll try adding lots more beans and protein (I’ll have to add a couple of protein shakes or something) and see what happens.

    Thanks again.


Adam Porter — June 25th, 2012, 6:43 am

How very timely!

My partner and I are giving this a go, starting tomorrow morning. I’ve got the grocery list sitting out and ready for a shopping spree this evening. I’ve got about 20lbs to lose and my partner’s got 30-40lbs that he’d like to see vanish.

We’d had awesome results with a ketosis-inducing protocol 2 years ago (suggested by our chiropractor), but it was much more rigorous and much less forgiving than the SCD protocol…and no cheat day until the bitter end of the program. Here’s hoping to see the same results with the SCD!

Thanks for the well-timed blog post, and the real-world stories. Love it!


Alison — June 25th, 2012, 6:58 am

Great article, and congrats to all of the featured folks on their weight loss success.

Unfortunately, slow-carb affects me in the same way that low-carb does – instant migraine. On the one day I tried it, I ate slow-carb for both breakfast and lunch, and had a migraine by dinner. Not sure how to mitigate that.


    Maria — June 25th, 2012, 8:51 am

    Alison, I wonder if you need to increase your carbs or protein. Maybe your water intake? Some people will notice they get headaches, ill stomaches etc. from when they start SCD. But, after a week or so, it gets better because the body is stabilizing and getting used to the lack in white carbs. How long did you go on SCD before you stopped due to the migraines?


Matthew Loop — June 25th, 2012, 7:05 am

Good inspirational post. Best thing I ever disciplined myself to do, in terms of getting healthy and maintaining a good weight, has been water fasting. I used to guide people through this process regularly in our clinic. My best friend lost 110 lbs in 4 months after he did a 7 day water fast. It was like a bear hibernating. It’s like the body resets itself. Obviously, having a consistent exercise regimen after is ideal.


Thomas @ Mobile App Tycoon — June 25th, 2012, 7:08 am

Awesome results! Very inspiring!


Harry — June 25th, 2012, 7:10 am

Excellent share. I am always very paranoid about slow carb diet and unwilling to try. After reading your post, maybe i should and do a blog post of the result on my blog and updates you on my success!


Dave — June 25th, 2012, 7:16 am

Tim, I grew up a fat kid and lost the weight in college. Over the last 6 years after some health issues it crept up and was has having trouble taking it off. When I read your book, I decided to give the SCD a half assed try on purpose to take the pressure off (I would get obsessive on former diet regimes). I decided to cheat from Friday night to Monday morning and didn’t cut fruit out (I did have a plan though and stuck to it). I dropped 20 pounds with very little effort and have kept it off for a year. That was my goal. My wife is an Ironman athlete who didn’t need to lose any weight, but said that her energy is much better on the SCD and she has developed more muscle tone as well. I have been a long time reader and fan who pre ordered both of your previous books, and just wanted to say thanks.


    Dave — June 25th, 2012, 7:23 am

    Also I did bloodwork before and after starting it. My cholesterol wasn’t bad when I started, but it did improve some. The biggest difference was the size of the cholesterol was small before (bad) and moved to the other side of the scale later to large (good). My LDL dropped while HDL increased. Very happy with the results


ronnie — June 25th, 2012, 7:32 am

19 pounds in 8 weeks and 4 inches off my waist. With no exercise and a few slip ups. Getting more disciplined and focused every day though and have more energy too.


sara — June 25th, 2012, 7:39 am

Tim,

Love these types of posts. Please keep them coming.

It’s super inspiring to see the weight loss, especially among the range of people: very large to small and also “normal” to small.

Look forward to seeing more posts like this soon.

Sara


JordanSherrell — June 25th, 2012, 7:53 am

How do I get my dad to start this lifestyle. I have seen him steadily gain weight my entire life, and he has even said he wants to lose weight. His reason is so his clothes will fit (which is a decent reason but not the moment described in 4HB). I have lost weight on this, but the best part is that I am the happiest I have ever been. I am funnier, more outgoing, and enjoy my life more than ever before. I know my dad will be happier if he loses weight and I want to see that happen. I tried to bring it up to him before, but he dismisses the thought of a diet and wants instead “A shot or a pill to give him a push and that will make [him] commit to keeping the weight off”. I know that is not the best choice, but I need some help convincing him that he NEEDS this lifestyle change. Any advice?


    Erik — June 25th, 2012, 8:39 am

    I have friends and family that really NEED to be on this diet. But until they have “The Moment” for themselves, it’s impossible to say anything that will make them start/stick with it.
    The best thing I could suggest is that you be the example for your father. Show him results and let him decide to make the change on his own.
    Best of luck!


Chris Burdick — June 25th, 2012, 7:56 am

Good follow-up article on the diet. Based on your original article about this a few years ago, I successfully lost 110+ lbs from my high of an embarrassing 317. All I can say is thank you!

I’ve traveling the world now (thanks again to some ideas in 4HWW) and have found it quite hard to follow this diet or even come close on a low budget and staying at hostels. Any tips?


    Chris Burdick — June 25th, 2012, 7:59 am

    It’s also worth noting I went from a waist size 44 to 34 over this time :)

    Also, it would be useful to have some suggestions on quick and effective workouts on the road, if possible. Back home I did kettlebell lifts and indoor rock climbing to stay in shape but since traveling I’ve lost quite a bit of muscle.


Lain — June 25th, 2012, 8:01 am

I’m curious if MP did anything other than the SCD – exercise, supplements? I’ve tried the diet for two weeks and got frustrated with my 3-lb loss in that time (much less than I anticipated based on the stories I’d read.) Looking for more direction and faqs, particularly for women. I’ve read the appropriate chapters in 4HB repeatedly but still have questions. Looked online but didn’t find what I was l was looking for. Thanks!


    Marie-Pier — June 25th, 2012, 5:38 pm

    Hi Lain,

    Yes, the 4HB was the beginning of my fitness journey. I started SCD in Jan. 2011. In September, I decided to follow the Jamie Eason 12 week trainer program (you can find it on the bodybuilding site). In Jan. 2012, I tried my own program and then switched to Kris Gethin’s hardcore 12 weeks program last February. I’m currently on round 2 of this program.

    These 2 programs are quite different and I find that the Jamie Eason’s one is perfect if you don’t know anything about training (like me). Her comprehensive day to day guide gave me a lot of knowledge and motivation. Although I wasn’t completely following the SCD during this program, I kept in mind what I learned in Tim’s book: try things and see what’s best for me, test my results. I found my own “recipe” to transform my body.

    I would say that whenever you have downs or get frustrated because you don’t see the results you want, don’t give up. Keep tracking your results, measurements, food, moods… Anything that will help you see the overall picture and keep your motivation high. Never give up because there is always change happening, it’s hard to see it from one day to another but it becomes big after months. Stick to a plan and follow it, like I said to another commenter: Enjoy the process.

    Think “progress, not perfection”.

    Good luck!
    MP


Gidon — June 25th, 2012, 8:02 am

1st of all, 4HWW was probably the only book I bought new in about a decade and totally worth it! I am working slowly on writing a review of it.

Is 4HB just these 5 rules to lose weight, or is there other stuff?

Sorry for not doing my own googsearch, but I go slowly:-)


surya thotapalli — June 25th, 2012, 8:09 am

Congrats! that is fantastic…I went on Slow carb and lost 35 lbs in six months…now I gained back 12lbs..agree, not following the diet to the dot…
but there got to be a way, you can hold weight levels ??

Any suggestion?


Danny — June 25th, 2012, 8:16 am

I gained about 6 pounds in 10 days on the Occam’s protocol eating and doing the geek to freak workouts but then lost it again ;( And still eating 5-6 meals a day and drinking protein shakes with milk. I think in the 4HB you said to eat about 2,300 calories if you want to become 170 lbs. One sticky point is eating so much actually slows me down, causing a loss of energy and productivity. What do you recommend?


Harsh — June 25th, 2012, 8:19 am

Tim, I’ve been on the slow-carb diet for about 2 years now. It has helped me keep things simple even though the main aim hasnt been fat-loss as much as just eating healthy. Being a bachelor who lives alone In New Delhi and loves sports and exercise it really has helped me maintain a healthy habit.

I have not only recommended the diet to friends and colleagues but am pushing the 4HB system through a program a friend is experimenting with at his gym. The Fat Loss program is a 30 day challenge from 1July to 30 July. We are eager to see how many inches members lose by getting on to the SCD plus doing the kettlebell swing as the only exercise. I am going to use Tracy’s “The Swing” to develop the various days workouts. Would you recommend otherwise?

On days like today it would be good to go back to the Neil Gaiman talk and remind yourself that you are moving towards the mountain!


Bob — June 25th, 2012, 8:24 am

I’ve been on the SCD for about 4 months now and have lost about ten pounds of fat while maintaining my body weight with resistance training. Although my results have not been dramatic, they have been steady and measurable. Each week week I notice improved vascularity, decreased fat deposits (particularly around my major joints), and healthier appearance overall. Thanks Tim.


David — June 25th, 2012, 8:32 am

This is great Tim because it is essentially simple and simple actions make a big difference.

I think it is much easier to follow a plan when it is repetitive, same foods on same day each week but vary meals throughout the week to get nutritional balance. I have thought seminars for years on how simple effective action can make a difference and Tim, you once again show how effective this is.

Great wishes to everyone for their successes,

David


    David — June 25th, 2012, 8:36 am

    Opps! I meant taught not ‘thought’ – so much for my English lessons!
    David


Erik — June 25th, 2012, 8:32 am

Tim,
I want to sincerely thank you for developing and publishing this book. So far I’ve lost 40 pounds in 4 months and dropped down to 13.8% body fat (my goal is 12%!). I’ve got more energy and focus than I’ve ever had. I sleep like a baby. I feel comfortable – even confident – taking my shirt off at the beach. Best of all, I am now COMPLETELY free of the acid reflux that has plagued me since the age of 12.

This change has been so much more than a “diet.” It has revolutionized the way I think about my myself, my work, my family, and my life in general. After 37 years of being the “chunky” guy, I feel like I’ve been given a brand new, athletic body to use and enjoy for the rest of my life. If I can change this aspect of my life, I can change ANYTHING!

Thank you Tim.


Bas Hamer — June 25th, 2012, 8:53 am

Guinevere our 9 year old bullmastiff lost 20 lbs on the diet, does that count ?

She really likes the cheat days where she eats 1.5 dinner breakfasts; also all her allergies have cleared up. It is funny to tell people she is nine after people are convinced she is a puppy.


Scott — June 25th, 2012, 8:56 am

I would like to see a thread for hard losers. Tried slow carb and low carb adding intermittent fasting. Some fat loss, but have been stalled for months. Can it really be this hard?


John O'Leary — June 25th, 2012, 9:00 am

I have found that treating the SBD as an experiment helped me be more compliant. If I didn’t lose weight one week I would do some inquiry without attaching myself too much to the outcome. I am more interested in seeing which foods I can lose the most weight on, rather than needing the food I am eating now to produce the effect now.

Also, using Apple Numbers on my iPhone has helped me A TON with keeping track of my data. I track so much stuff now!

Thank you Tim for all the inspiration!


Molly — June 25th, 2012, 9:22 am

Great article! After 3 months on SCD – I got pregnant naturally after trying for 3 years. :) I did have a miscarriage (which had nothing to do with previous infertility), but now I know I can get pregnant! :)


    Farid Behnia — June 28th, 2012, 1:52 pm

    That sounds great! I hope more women cut gluten out of their diets.


Ed B — June 25th, 2012, 9:30 am

So, I went Paleo in Jan. 2012, since then, I read and re-read the 4hour body…I did an experiment in May on the SCD, with cheat meal, not day…I have lost over 30lbs since Jan. 1st and increased lean mass at the same time…I have used kettle bells for the last few yrs, but finally bumped up to a 50lb…now, the 30grams of protien 1st thing in the morning is a great idea…Intermittent fasting as well…I now am hacking using the Bulletproof executive style, ie Bullet Proof coffee in the am…and eat about 2 pm in the day…along w/ CT…I am hoping to drop another 10 within the next few weeks!

Thanks Tim Ferriss!!!


Scott Baird — June 25th, 2012, 9:33 am

Everone’s SCD stories are crazy inspirational. Just started the SCD & downloaded the SlowCarb Diet App last week. The recipe’s for flavorful low carb alternatives have made all the difference.


Roberto Lebron — June 25th, 2012, 10:03 am

Thank you for this article and for all you do. I’m a fan from the first edition of 4HWW, which helped me make important changes in my life. Through this blog I found out about Ramit Sethi, whose material I’ve also found very useful, so thank you for that as well.

I would like to recommend The 4 Hour Body to some Spanish-speaking relatives. Is the book available in Spanish now? If so, where can I find it?

Cheers!


    Farid Behnia — June 28th, 2012, 2:04 pm

    There you go:

    http://www.amazon.es/EL-CUERPO-PERFECTO-CUATRO-HORAS/dp/8466650210/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1340465244&sr=8-1


Joe Timmins — June 25th, 2012, 10:17 am

Hey Tim and SCDers,

Most of the success stories seem to be of people dropping big numbers. 40lbs, 60lbs, or more.

Any solid stories of people going from fairly fit to very fit?

Thanks!
Joe


    Farid Behnia — June 28th, 2012, 2:05 pm

    @Joe:

    What percentage of bodyfat are you talking about? SCD can get you down to about 10-12% at best. The Last Mile diet, however, can take you to a single-digit.


Eddie — June 25th, 2012, 10:30 am

TIM!

I want you to know your POSSIBILITY THINKING continues to INSPIRE ME.

I return again and again to the 4HWW to read how to grow and challenge myself and to aggressively go after dreams and goals and NOT become the fat man in the convertible red BMW.

Also, the Body Book…..introducing me to Pavel and strategies for eating healthier.

I see you as a someone with your finger on the pulse of cutting-edge technology. Your site is an ocean of life improving knowledge.

I’m writing this because of you spoke of your darkest hours up against deadlines and the roller-coaster of it all.

Tim, You’re a Bad-Ass. What tells me of your character is that you never tell us you’re a bad ass, you simply let the body of evidence speak for itself.

You’re a likable guy who doesn’t take himself too seriously, yet what you do, VERY seriously. That ALONE makes the difference.

This is why you inspire so many. It’s because you want to help us with all this knowledge and you present it in a manner which says, “this is what’s worked for me, see what you can do with these strategies.”

Tim, you have an army rooting for you. KNOW THAT.

There have to be so many of us you’ve helped around the world.

When you get down, imagine finishing that last mile of the marathon in the Colosseum…… with ALL OF US cheering you on.

Because……….in reality, that’s how many of us there are. We feel the fever pitch of respect, appreciation, and loyalty for how much you’ve given us.

Kick the door down.

Eddie


Michael Lee — June 25th, 2012, 10:32 am

What about sweet potatoes? Are they allowed?


    Farid Behnia — June 28th, 2012, 2:06 pm

    Nope.


erica — June 25th, 2012, 11:18 am

I am a female, 33 years old and have one child ( 11 yrs old)

I have only been doing SCD for two weeks and I have already lost 9 pounds. This is also after having my monthly visitor this past weekend.

Many women wonder if this diet is truly effective for them…and the answer is YES! It DOES WORK, but ONLY if you follow the rules to the letter.

I love this way of eating. I have tons more energy, I fell clean and alert. I don’t drag arse at 3PM anymore. I don’t have mood swings associated with blood sugar levels being out of whack.

Another bonus is that my grocery bill has decreased, even though I buy almost all organic foods.

Love it!


Therese — June 25th, 2012, 11:32 am

I tried the SCD for 4 weeks and experienced no significant weight loss. I was eating a paleo diet for 2 months prior and had lost about 8 pounds. I tried SCD to get through a weight loss plateau and it was very dissapointing. Here is what I did:

1. Followed the eating plan to the letter. I was not eating much fruit to begin with so eliminating that was easy. All I had to do was add beans (which are discouraged on a standard paleo diet, unless you are very active)

2. Did the 3x per week kettle bell workout

3. Took the PAGG suplement regiment

4. Iced nightly with ice packs

5. Did the cheat day with the squats and everything and lots of caffeine

Result: Lost ZERO WEIGHT, but lost 1 inch off waist and hips. Highly dissapointing. I didn’t expect to lose more than 20 pounds cause I’m a woman and generally we are not able to lose as much as men in that short a period of time, but considering how much was involved, I expected to lose 10-15 pounds. I also kept a meticulous journal of everything I ate, what my activity levels were each day, how I felt, what my digestion was like and what my skin looked like—I struggle with acne, which has cleared up a lot since I started eating paleo.

I keep reading all these success stories of people losing massive amounts of weight in a month. I believe eating this way will ward off any health problems that I could have. My BP is great, my cholesterol and triglycerides are at optimum levels, I have reasonable cardio vascular endurance. I am very flexible and very strong. I probably could stay at this weight and live a long time. But it is frustrating because I am 205 pounds and 5’5″ and what I really want is to lose this extra weight. I appreciate the importance of all the other health benefits of good eating and I am glad that part is working out for me, but I really want to look hot…AND be healthy.

So what gives? What did I do wrong?


    Jesse Lee — June 25th, 2012, 2:21 pm

    Is it possible that you are pregnant and don’t know it?


        Therese — June 25th, 2012, 2:43 pm

        No, dude. Pregnancy is not possible. (FYI – I am not on hormonal birth control)

        I think it was the beans. I don’t know why they are required at every meal. I have read that they produce the same negative effects in your gut as grains do. After going back to standard paleo, I lost 2 pounds for a total weight loss of 10 pounds and 1 dress size.

        The lesson: There is no ONE THING that is going to work for everyone. Everyone’s body is different. Wasn’t a total loss, though. I discovered a great supplement called Alpha Lipoic Acid that works better than Aleve or Advil for sore muscles and it doesn’t cause the same damage to the liver as ibuprofen does.


    Mac — July 15th, 2012, 1:32 pm

    put your daily food intake into something like cronometer.com and see what nutrients you’re missing.


Arun — June 25th, 2012, 11:34 am

Hi Tim,
I have religiously followed your clow carb diet.
I am 32, 170 lbs with about 25% body fat, 7% visceral fat. I dont look fat thought.

I have egg whites, spinac and a protein shake for breakfast (non-dairy)
Chicken breast, cauliflower, daal (lentils) for lunch and more daal/brocolli/meat for dinner.
No dairy/No fruit and have bfast within 30 minutes of waking up. I do the cheat day but dont go overboard (coz i just cant, there is no time nor appetite)
I have seen no change in body fat and a reduction of maybe a couple of pounds in body weight. How could I improve? What is the problem?


Lemuel Bach — June 25th, 2012, 11:36 am

I did the SCD for a year and didn’t lose any weight. I followed all the rules but stayed at 175 lbs. (I used to be 145 lbs. and wanted to get back to that). Regrettably, though, I binged on the holidays and got up to about 190 lbs.

So then I tried gaining weight through working out and eating potatoes, etc. I got up to 211 lbs., looked and felt fatter than I ever have in my life, and got criticized by some untactful family members. (But my own shock at seeing pictures of myself is my main motivation now.)

Then, I did the SCD again for about six months and have gotten back down to 203 lbs. I’m doing kettlebell swings with a 30-lb. weight, 50 reps three times per week (and the Flying Dog and Turkish Get Up). I plan on working with this kettlebell for another week or two and then buying a 40-lb. one.

I just don’t really understand why I haven’t gotten the dramatic weight reduction that some other people have. It seems like most people would lose 50 or 60 lbs. in six months (but I’ve lost less than 10). On the other hand, the amount of reps I can do in every exercise has increased, and I like that my measurements for arms and glutes have increased while my flexed waist has decreased. Maybe I’ve lost more than 10 lbs. of fat and gained some muscle weight.

I still have hope that if I upgrade my kettlebell and keep on this path, I will eventually reach my goal, although I’m surprised that my progress is (or seems to be) slow. Not to complain, I’m very thankful that I feel healthy and in control on this diet. It really helps me avoid junk food, and I’m learning a lot from it.


    Therese — June 25th, 2012, 2:49 pm

    I had the same experience. My weight loss has been at a glacial pace. I just think that everyone is not going to get crazy good results. I still believe there are many health benefits to eliminating dairy and grains (insulin regulation, cholesterol control, increased energy, cancer prevention etc).

    But everytime I lose weight FAST I always gain it back faster, plus more. So even if it takes me a year to lose 25 pounds, if that means that weight actually STAYS off, I would prefer that, rather than the constant yo-yo crap…wouldn’t you?


Warren Hales — June 25th, 2012, 11:54 am

BodyCompare is a great iPhone/iPad app for people wanting to take progress photos.

It lets you take 4 photos (front, back, left and right) per day (or week … whatever) and then easily compare them side by side.

http://bit.ly/rp8Ao3

The only thing it doesn’t do yet is let you share the comparison views. But that is coming soon.

It will keep you motivated and committed and you will be happy you have the photos when (not if!) you make huge progress!

Hope someone finds it useful. It is a perfect fit with the 4HB.


Katya Kean — June 25th, 2012, 11:59 am

Slow-carb eating helps me not have nightmares.
It’s happened twice this week. I had white wine, or juice and pie before bed, and not enough proteins and fats with dinner, and could barely sleep all night, I kept waking up with nightmares, and was wiped out the next day.
I’m pretty skinny, and closer to hypoglycemia than diabetes, but I have my own reasons for wanting to avoid sugary foods! Sleeping through the night is a beautiful thing.
Tim, I’m really looking forward to your 4-Hr Chef book. I’d eat better (and sleep better) if I had more ideas on how or what to cook. Please include photos and video links!


Anlam Kuyusu — June 25th, 2012, 12:00 pm

I’m not that impressed.

Here’s a snippet:

“My previous “meal plan” consisted of eating junk food three times a day and constant snacking. Not a day would go by without having dessert, consisting of either a pint of rich ice cream or bag of cookies. Looking back, I can easy understand how I got to 410 pounds”

It looks as if this person cleaned up his diet.

It doesn’t look like a result of the SCD – of course, Tim will market it as such.


Arun — June 25th, 2012, 12:07 pm

Hi, I have hit a Plateau, I lost 12 pounds in 3 months, but now I am not losing much, what can I do?

Thanks,
Arun


alex — June 25th, 2012, 12:11 pm

Hello,

I’m doing the slow carb now for three months and had good results in the beginning. I don’t need to lose a lot of weight, but I was looking for a healthier way of eating which I have found in the SCD.

Everything went well until my job changed and I was posted on the maternity ward, where we get chocolates, biscuits and sweets from the patients.
But it’s getting hard. I love eating carbs, chocolate, sweets and everything that’s not good.

I eat my three SC meals a day with 30 gr. proteins but the in betweens get harder to resist.

Can anyone or anything help me?


Christine — June 25th, 2012, 12:11 pm

I’m also curious to know more about MP – cause this is the category I’m in. I’m a young female and “normal” weight but I would like to really tone up and lose more body fat.

Did she do any exercise while doing SCD? If so what program?

I tried SCD last year for two weeks and did lose a few pounds, however I found I was really tired especially in the afternoons. I felt fatigued and this was hard to deal with… it felt like I wasn’t getting some kind of important nutrients that I needed when I followed it 100%. So in the end I couldn’t keep it up. I would like to try it again but want to know if anyone else has had this problem and how to tackle it?


    Marie-Pier — June 25th, 2012, 6:04 pm

    Hi Christine,

    I wasn’t exercising during the time I followed the SCD. I’ve lost 20 pounds in about 2 months. When I was looking to tone up, I found a 12 weeks program on the bodybuilding site (see the Jamie Eason 12 weeks program). It consists of 4 to 6 weight training sessions per week. I started to notice big changes in my body composition on week 5-6.

    Regarding your lack of energy, I also feel the same way as you do when I don’t eat enough carbs. I suggest you test and see how much carbs you need in order to feel well and drop the pounds. Depending on when you train, eat less carbs (or none) at dinner. Carb cycling is effective but I suggest you talk and plan with a nutritionist before… I haven’t mastered this part yet, when I tried, I shed a lot of fat very fast but I had no energy to train or do anything else.

    The most enjoyable way I found to reach my goal is to eat plenty (4-6 times a day) and train like a bodybuilder (using free weight mostly). I find that circuits, crossfit and HIT workouts are taking too much of my energy and are messing up with my hormones. If you are interested, you can connect with me on the BB site.

    Good luck!


Mark Swedberg — June 25th, 2012, 12:18 pm

Hey Tim,

I know this is selfish, but I’m glad to hear you have ups and downs too, lol. Awesome post, it’s nice to see your face on the blog every now and then, not that the guest posts aren’t pretty cool too. Good luck with the book, can’t wait to read it!


Tyler — June 25th, 2012, 12:48 pm

Did the SCP at two different times, losing about 20 pounds the first time and 40+ the second time, and I gained about 15 pounds of muscle. I’m inspired enough by the sexy pictures to start it up again. Supermodel time!

Anyway, terrible quality but here’s Before and After, 248 to 196:

http://i1208.photobucket.com/albums/cc376/Cloudhand07/Fitness/50PoundComparison.jpg


    Tyler — June 25th, 2012, 4:11 pm

    Also, I don’t know if you need this, Tim. But I use this really simple online journal thing, called http://750words.com, created by Buster Benson, (“CEO of @habitlabs, builder of @healthmonth, 750words.com, @budge and @peabrain.”) And in the last 20 days (480 total hours, 330 awake hours) I have enough data to directly correlate my mood over the day to typing out these 750 words sometime in the morning. I feel more alive and passionate in every moment (not hoaky passionate; solving important problems and doing interesting things), and when I don’t do it at all I feel either either drifted away or just disconnected from what I want to do. It’s hard to explain but the data speaks for its self: generally, if I don’t do it, I have a bad day.

    I hope this help!


Evan Raymer — June 25th, 2012, 12:53 pm

Hey Tim,

I have been searching for a while for the answer to my question, I would really appreciate it if you answered or directed me some info.

I started up the slow-carb diet back in September and lost about 25 pounds of fat. I started the last mile diet about 4 weeks ago and am getting visible abs for the first time in my life.

How can I maintain my fat loss when I return to the slow-carb diet?

Long time reader (mom bought me 4HWW when I was 16). I have read most of the 4-hour body and have developed a much more athletic and aesthetic body using your methods.

Thank you so much!


Joel C — June 25th, 2012, 12:57 pm

Tim,

I think you rock! I also think you should consider rebounding as a part of your regiment for people seeking to lose weight a safe way. Rebounding eliminates 68% of the shock that a person normally experiences when exercises! Check us out.


Ben Longman — June 25th, 2012, 1:02 pm

Hi Tim,

What do you think about the Quest protein bars? They seem to fit in with a lot of what the diet recommends (lots of protein, no sugar) and may be a suitable breakfast alternative for me. Same question goes for the Stevia sweetener.

-Ben (lost 36 pounds, but a bit stuck)


Martha — June 25th, 2012, 1:17 pm

Started yesterday. Excited to see how it works out. But I think will take a bit to get the right balance. I’m starving and have a a headache. How much do I need to eat??


    Maria Rider (@Akane1) — June 25th, 2012, 5:16 pm

    Hi, Martha!

    If you are having headaches and are starving try increasing your protein more and water as well. Also, headaches could be due to the body detoxing the sugar/carbs from your body, so, it SHOULD go away after a few days or a week or so. If it gets worse, then I’d see your doctor. Get in at least 30g of protein at breakfast, 20g at lunch and dinner each. I shoot for more like 35g at lunch/dinner. The protein should help with hunger and cravings.

    Good Luck!


Ron — June 25th, 2012, 1:46 pm

Not slow carb – I lost the weight in 2002 on The Zone Diet which is not too terribly unlike the slow carb diet. I was also inspired by Body For Life before and after pics. I currently eat high fat, moderate protein, slow carb. I look pretty much like the last pic at age 50. It’s time for an update image.

http://tinyurl.com/78w4bs4


ad — June 25th, 2012, 1:51 pm

been on the SCD for about 6 months, primarily to lose weight and fat. have ended up gaining wieght and enlarging waistline. switched to adding HIIT to my workouts and cutting out the beans and i feel so much better and am losing weight again. guessing i was doing something wrong in principle but i’m damned if i know what it was. anyway, came here to see if anyone else was having issues, but obviously its just me. anyway, well done everyone else.


Bendik L. — June 25th, 2012, 2:05 pm

I still have goosebumps from reading this post! Some wonderful stories.

I must admit I am lucky genetically, altho I have no guarantee it will last forever. I really swear to the wonders of SCD since it has taken me to sub 7% bodyfat (measured by an ifbb pro), in a very short time. My greatest challenge is gaining muscle, I dont simply eat enough. `
Honestly I believe I am not dedicated enough, I really need that Harajuku moment! or do I?

I have mad respect for all of you that have been so dedicated to staying stricly to SCD over time. You are some really awesome role models for us others, showing that its possible if you put your mind to it.
You rock!!


Jesse Lee — June 25th, 2012, 2:17 pm

I just re-found my results from when I was doing the Slow Carb along with the ‘Geek to Freak’ workout plan.

Here it is:

My Beginning Stats – End results after 28 days= Difference:
Weight: 220 lbs. – 205 lbs.= (-15 lbs)
Stomach: 46” – 41”= (-5”)
Thighs: 25” – 25” = (0)Although they went down two inches and back up again… replaced the fat with muscle,I think.)
Waist/Belt : 40” – 38 ½” = (-1 ½”)
Biceps: 14 ½”- 15 ½” = (+1”)
Neck: 17” – 16” = (-1”)
Butt: 45” – 42” = (-3”)
Chest: 45” – 46” = (+1”) Also up and down.

Concluding Totals:
I lost 15 lbs even though I am sure it is more fat weight loss than that since I have increased in size in the right places ans I am now firmer all the way around. Plus, muscle weighs more than fat.

Total inches Lost (in the Butt, Stomach, Neck and Belt): 10”
Total inches Gained (in the Chest and Biceps): 3”


Steven R — June 25th, 2012, 2:26 pm

I had commented on this entry on Facebook and for some reason I am now blocked from your page without explanation. I disagreed with the part about avoiding fruits and mentioned that they are antioxidant powerhouses. This is unfortunate because I have been fairly admirable of your advice over the past few years.. what a disappointment.


Jay Veltz — June 25th, 2012, 2:33 pm

Been doing SCD since 2010 . Changed my life. Check out my before and after pics (click my name and it will take you to my pics).

Cheers,

Jay


Dave — June 25th, 2012, 2:49 pm

Tim,
I started the Slow Carb Diet on New Years Day 2011. I have lived the lifestyle now for 18 months and it has been great! I have lost over 70 lbs. and have not visited the snack machine at my office once in that time. The 10:30 in the morning slump is no longer something I have to deal with. I am sleeping much better, my cholesterol and my BP are both down. I feel and look great.
I am an amputee (left leg at the hip) and could not be fitted for the latest and greatest prosthetic, because the joint had a 225 lb weight limit and I was well over 250. I felt terrible when I was told that. I’m not crushed by not having the prosthetic as I get along quite well without it, but I felt awful that my weight would limit my choice as to whether I could get one or not. I hope that makes sense to you and your readers.
I am so glad that you wrote about your experiences in a way that is simple and relatively easy to stick to. Other weight loss programs have no worked for me, especially if there is a large cardio component for obvious reasons.
Thanks again, and good luck on the next book.
Dave


Malte — June 25th, 2012, 3:50 pm

Rule #1: Avoid “white” starchy carbohydrates (or those that can be white). This means all bread, pasta, rice, potatoes, and grains. If you have to ask, don’t eat it.

Is it okay with brown bread and scb porridge for breakfast?

Can you give som good tips for breakfast? In my opinion its the hardest meal of the day to make healthy.


    Ryan Burkitt — June 25th, 2012, 7:55 pm

    Malte-
    I don’t know why people are stuck that Breakfast has to be traditional breakfast foods? Especially when we have realized how bad our traditional foods are for us!
    -If you are set that it has to be Breakfast foods, I love makeing scrambled eggs with veggies and some black beans added in. Sometimes I add a bit of sausage for flavor
    -I also have steak with some beans and salsa or stir fried veggies
    -I have also done chicken breast with some cinamon on in (gives it more of a B’fast feel) and then beans and veggies.
    -I have when out for B’fast with others in reastaurant ordered eggs and a side salad instead of hash browns and toast – there was no bean option though.
    -I also (on using the eat a few meals all the time rule) make a big pot of SCD chili, then I usually eat it for most meals for several days til it runs out. so, why not chili for breakfast?

    just some thoughts…
    so what the heck? Break the Mold!


Shane D — June 25th, 2012, 4:12 pm

Wow this is really inspirational guys! I love looking at successful transformations.

“It’s a lifestyle, not a diet.”

Great quote. Not something I really understood until I was well into my transformation, but that was a major game changer for me.

I’m waiting for your form asking “how much (muscle) have you gained from the SCD” so I can chime in with my results ;)


paul — June 25th, 2012, 5:41 pm

Hey Tim and others: The thing I’m concerned about in reading some of the testimonies is that this is a quantitative approach – in other words, losing weight seems to be the primary goal as opposed to quality of foods. Quality (of foods) is always a concern to me. One can lose weight but not be all that healthy (even though proper weight is a healthy thing). Canned lentils, no fruit, gobs of meat and eggs – please help me out here. can one do this SCD as a vegetarian? I’m sincere in asking these questions and not trying to bash SCD or anybody else. Thank you!


    Ryan Burkitt — June 25th, 2012, 8:09 pm

    I guess it depends where you are in the process, if someone is 100lbs overweight, the best thing they can do for their health and well being is to loose some weight. Then once they have some success with that then, maybe they can focus more on healthier choices for the long run. I know that I often get messed up if I am to ridged on everything. Then I get frustrated and end up at MacDonald’s because I got overwhelmed and didn’t figure out what to make for Lunch…

    I am kind of looking at this as a Slow Carb/Paelo ‘lifestyle’ incorporating as many of the Paelo diet ideas into the Slow carb framework. So, grass fed beef, free run chicken and eggs, organic veggies (all when possible). taking lots of supplements etc.

    I have tried to cook my own beans as the canned ones are not as healthy; but then I didn’t have time or they didn’t turn out right, the consistency was weird and I ended up not liking the food much and then I am hungry and end up cheating.

    I really don’t know how you can do this as a Vegan… . Lots of vegetable protein I guess.


Craig Smith — June 25th, 2012, 6:52 pm

Tim this is awesome! I bet it feels good contributing to people losing weight and getting healthy! The slow/low carb has been around a while, and your book just re-enforces that it works.


Rome — June 25th, 2012, 7:08 pm

Can someone clarify if Brown Rice is allowed?

It isn’t a white carb, as far as I know, and doesn’t fall into any of the other categories, so I would assume it is allowed, but please clarify – about to get started on this diet.


    Tim Ferriss — June 26th, 2012, 12:15 am

    Hi Rome,

    Nope. Any grains are out, whether white, brown, or somewhere in between. Bread is the same. If it *can* be white or is a grain, avoid it until cheat day.

    Good luck!

    Tim


    Ryan Burkitt — June 26th, 2012, 9:17 am

    FYI
    here is a handy reference website- if you are wondering if something is allowed, type it in and it will tell you. I have only stumped it once.

    http://www.eslowcarbdiet.com/wild-rice/


John "Widgett" Robinson — June 25th, 2012, 7:12 pm

Just wanted to chime on the losing weight vs. being healthy thing, in case it helps anyone.

#1. I was weighing myself along with doing Total Inches but I found this frustrating. Even though I could see my inches dropping I wasn’t losing much weight. And even though intellectually I knew this was because I was building up muscle (using kettlebells regularly) this was still messing with my head and getting me frustrated. So I came to the realization that I honestly didn’t care what I weighed. I cared how big around I was. So I stopped weighing and that made all the difference. So I would say decide what you want and make sure your tracking methodology supports that.

#2. After losing my waist, my blood writeups and BP and the whole nine improved substantially. Even my white coat syndrome, which made me have high BP while in the doctor’s office even though it was acceptable in the Publix next door on their machine–that went away. My BP doesn’t make the nurses freak out and prep to call an ambulance anymore, in other words. FYI, FWIW, YMMV.


Marcela — June 25th, 2012, 7:38 pm

Hi Tim,

First off, I want to thank you for the many many hours of research and dedication you have put into everything you do, which benefits many of us. People like you are so rare and so precious, please never forget that. Yes, money and fame is fun, but when you can change someone’s life… I believe there is no greater gift. And you have changed and inspired the life of many. Thank you for obeying your call :)

Secondly, I want to express my excitement about starting the SCD this Wednesday :) I know most people’s comments are about all their wonderful journeys and pounds they’ve lost, or very specific and helpful questions, but I just want to share that I am ready to commit to more discipline in regards my health, and I am very happy to say I feel I have everyone’s back ! I only want to shed about 25 pounds, but to me, the discipline part of it is what is most appealing, and to know that I can do it, and I don’t need to starve myself, and I will have a day of my choosing to eat pasta and sweets :) , that makes the whole thing realistic, and I still feel in charge of it all. AND , best of all, I can still drink my red wine!

So this is just a THANK YOU note, for this great help to get to a healthier me, but also for all your blog posts, your 4-hour work week book (!!!! – love it), and The Random Shows (please more!), and, really, thank you thank you for all your focus, and discipline, and determination. You are a true inspiration to me. I wish you all the very best!

Warm thoughts,

Marcela.


KathChalmers — June 25th, 2012, 8:28 pm

Awesome program! Last year I lost 19 lbs and 20 inches in 30 days. Keeping the bean portions small and photographing nearly every meal helped. Also I worked out on the treadmill a few times per week and found the cardio to be a good way to boost day to day losses. Not bad results for a female with a really slow metabolism!


Shawn — June 25th, 2012, 8:32 pm

This diet cures my IBS ,and has brought my cholesterol down. I do not experience the mid- day -after- lunch- slump I was having also. Thank you so much Tim for all you do !!


TimM — June 25th, 2012, 8:43 pm

Tim,
Your blog is the only one that I subscribe to and look forward to each and every post. The stories in this post are amazing. I am going to give the slow carb diet a try this Wednesday and give it a two week trial. I will be sure to post my stats at the end of two weeks. Thanks for the inspiration.


    Tim Ferriss — June 26th, 2012, 12:13 am

    Thanks so much, Tim! I can’t wait to see your results. I think you (and your fellow readers who are doing the trial) will love the outcome :)

    Pura vida,

    Tim


Mi Fi — June 25th, 2012, 9:01 pm

Can I eat 500-700 grams per week of high quality dark chocolate on this “diet”?


Luis Delgado — June 25th, 2012, 10:44 pm

I’ve lost quite a few pounds (and I was already slender before turning to this amazing diet) with the SCD.

I have not read all of the comments (they are a ton), but one extra benefit which is very, very appealing, is just how cheap the diet is. I reduced my grocery shopping costs by at least 30%.

For adherence to the diet, I do recommend limiting the grocery shopping to SCD-friendly foods. Avoid all temptation at home, and just get your cheat stuff on the very same day you’ll use it. You’ll slowly realize that you’ll have less and less craving for “bad” foods, and won’t need to be snacking all day (provided that you eat enough on your three meals). Some people do food diary’s (taking a photo of each meal you take), which is helpful as well.


Joe — June 25th, 2012, 11:20 pm

Tim!

Hope this article From Kurzweil Ai will help your journey this summer.

http://www.kurzweilai.net/the-measured-man

This scientist is quantifying himself through series of tests and what he is doing will confirm individuals who are self-experimentining its merit. You and others could contribute your work and data and make this project coming to a fruition so that others may benefit from this contribution to a better health and better society.


christine ihalas — June 26th, 2012, 12:55 am

Only you who can help yourself to achieve a desired body figure. only a self discipline to make this all possible. Disciplining oneself on an exercise, maintaining your healthy diet and fighting your cravings for food are some that can help you through with this.. Think what’s the new you after surpassing all your hardships in doing healthy diets.


RJ — June 26th, 2012, 2:42 am

Tim

I’ve been a follower of your blog since the 4HWW came into my life as a tremendous punch in the face! For the people who havent read the book, I highly recommend it…. Not because of the “glamour life” you can get, but basically to help you re-think your life and priorities!

Muchas gracias hermano!
—-

The SCD i’ve been doing it for the last 11 weeks now… I was weighing around 228-230 pounds since mid-last-year, and my body was really resenting that crap…. I usually maintained myself in the range of 175-185 lbs, but all of it was lost after marriage!!! lol!!! Never did any real weight-training, nor a sport for the last 10 years, more of a gamer/movie guy…

The first 8 weeks was only SCD, and a few assisted chin-ups/pull-ups every couple of days (i hadnt done a real chin-up in years!), and I went from aprox. 228 to 211, loosing 17 pounds in 2 months… Not a lot by my “old” standards of weight-loss, but WITH A MIRACULOUS CHEAT DAY!!! ***

After week 8, my brother decided to loose his last pounds (around 8), and helped me through to break my habit of not going to the gym… Im currently going 2x a week to the gym, general workout, doing the 3rd series to max weight 3reps… Basically, gaining muscle mass (To help with Metabolic Basal Rate).

Of course, the shedding pounds effect of the SCD has gone to HELL! hahaha! But its ok, this past 3 weeks i’ve lost only 4.4 pounds, but seen strenght gains rangeing from 40-120%!!! So I’ll be tweaking “mass” months, and “fat-loss” months every now and then…

***CHEAT DAY
I really dont know if any of you guys go really nuts on your Cheat Day??? My wife and friends that im crazy, and well… sometimes I am, but i’ve found that this type of life-style helps a lot people with addictive and obsessive tendencies (such as myself)…

Crazy as in:

8am – 3 whole eggs, beans, juice and coke zero
11am – Double Whataburger with fries
12pm – A bag of mrs bairds doughnuts
2pm – Big Firehouse Sub/Subway, with chips and soda or 4 pieces of Fried chicken with corn, mashed potatoes and soda.
6pm – beer with chips
8 pm – beer and whatever is at hand
9 pm – 4 Slices of pizza/any high carb food, with a pitcher of beer
10pm – Any dessert that is available…
11pm – If not feeling stuffed by now, more beer as final dessert…

And yes, i’ve felt sick the two times i’ve done that…. But its pretty well worth it cause I dont even think of beer/bread/pasta or whatever else i ate that day for a whoooole while! lol!!!

What are your CHEAT DAYS like people?


J. Roto — June 26th, 2012, 5:54 am

Just posted to you on fb as well, but I’m on day #5 of slow carb and loving each day’s energy more and more. I’m somewhat happy with my weight, but I’m looking to “trim the fat” in certain areas before it gets out of control.

I’m reading through everything above — especially some of the meal variations — and I like that others have had more success being flexible with breakfast (especially). So far, I’m finding it easier to follow this plan for the other 2 meals of the day.

So, cheers, here’s a photo of this mornings breakfast: http://goo.gl/VRW8o

…and if I haven’t said it already, a good friend gave me T4HB…and it has become like a bible to me. Thanks, Tim!


kekePower — June 26th, 2012, 5:57 am

I’m wondering if any of you have done the ice bathing suggested in 4HB? I haven’t because Norway has been really chilly so far this summer and I want to feel warm more than I want to freeze :-)


Jenny — June 26th, 2012, 7:46 am

Hi Tim, me and my husband Olle are using 4HB. He lost 30 kg and I 25 kg. You can se my transformatin on this videoclip.

We are writing a book about bodyhacking on the 4HB and it will be on the swedish market in august 2012.
Here is some interesting pics http://blogg.fyratimmarskroppen.se/?p=1273

Thanks a lot for the inspiration!!!!!
Jenny and Olle


Jay Veltz — June 26th, 2012, 8:01 am

Tim, I recommend the NEAPOLOTIN for a tasty way to get your 30 g protein in the first 30 minutes of the day:

1 Scoop Chocolate Supreme Optimum Nutrition 100% Casein Protein
1 TSP Strawberry Quick
8 OZ water
Dash of Cinnamon (adds delicious breakfasty taste + fat loss properties)
1 Cap Vanilla (Mexican vanilla is the best)

Tip: Use a Mason Jar to mix your shake. Put the water in first – casein is thick and gooey and tends to stick to the bottom when added first. add the remaining ingredients, put the cap on and shake vigorously and immediately.

After drinking the shake add 8 OZ more water shake and drink – this literally no mess to clean afterward + you get a bit extra hydration.

Caveat: The quick ads 30 empty calories. If your a stickler save the quick for cheat day.

Enjoy !


Peter — June 26th, 2012, 8:05 am

I could have sworn Patrick’s after photo was Billy Bob Thornton :-)

What tremendous transformation by Patrick and the others!


Mac — June 26th, 2012, 8:23 am

Tim, what’s the recommendation of having 30g of protein within 30 minutes based on? Is it primarily recommended for adherence? For strict fatloss, I’ve seen recommendations to NOT consume any breakfast but perhaps have some MCT oil to remain in ketogensis and to take advantage of the morning cortisol for fat burning.


John P — June 26th, 2012, 8:44 am

Hi Tim,

I’m really proud of all of these great people who managed to change their bodies and their lives by strictly adhering to the SCD. I understand their zeal, I’ve already lost 60lbs . . . in 18 months. I know, not nearly the amazingly fast results so many others have enjoyed, but that is my point.

There are a lot of people having success and it makes them want to do an even better job of following your guidelines because it is really (and for many of us, Finally) working. I am happy for them and don’t want to diminish their fervor. I just want to make sure that if anyone is reading this and doesn’t see themselves as that motivated and psyches themselves out, they might benefit from a slacker experience.

Make no mistake, the weeks I followed more suggestions from the book, 4HB, I saw better results, I felt better, it was all-around positive. For some reason I do better with a lot of things at a slower pace and I have fallen into that groove. It still works! Seriously, I’m not as fastidious with everything, plenty of things slip through that shouldn’t, late nights with any of my 5 children under 7 years old will kill the next day’s exercise, but I keep consistently getting healthier and dropping weight, getting stronger, sometimes nearly imperceptibly, but it is happening, every week. I have done nothing else besides a casual reading of 4HB and then a very close reading with a few notes and started making little changes, honestly, really little. There were some things I wasn’t willing to do, right before I got the book, we bought a new espresso machine so my wife and I could stop giving our local coffee shop $4 every time we wanted a fancy coffee. I like mine with milk and chocolate. I know it is bad, I know I could reach my goals quicker without it, but we indulge. I could probably be down an additional 15 lbs by now if I had cut out the fat coffee habit. The point is, the science is solid and works all the time and there is probably an element of not realizing the habits I have picked up over the last 18 months and the way they continue to serve me, but I don’t feel like I’m doing much, but I’m ready to buy some new work clothes soon.

As you can probably tell from my attitude about the whole thing, I’m not experiencing any diet stress or anything like that so it is almost like I’m not doing anything, yet losing weight and getting better in every way – for “free”.

Don’t underestimate the power of sharing the ideas either. I have ordered a couple of additional copies of the book for interested friends and it is like magic, they read it and even if they don’t decide to “go for it”, they tend to start doing the small things that make sense (M.E.D.) and see some benefit. Selfishly, it is a pretty nice, big impressive hard cover book for $15, so it is gratifying to give as a gift.

Finally, I wanted to mention, Tim, I recently read a book called “Willpower: Rediscovering the Greatest Human Strength” also available on amazon.com. The authors review several studies on willpower and self control and what it means to us in our everyday lives and I was stunned at how many of the ideas from your book are supported by their ideas and years of studies. Of particular interest was postponing something. Participants were much more likely to have success at avoiding a sweet treat or some other temptation if they could put off their enjoyment until later rather than deciding they could never have the object in question. “I will have the cookie after dinner (or on Saturday) ” instead of “I can never eat that cookie, ever”.

I have another 60 or so lbs to go, so I hope to join that “100 club” before too long, when that is, I’m not sure, but at this point I’m really excited knowing it will definitely happen.

Thanks,

John P.


Sunny — June 26th, 2012, 9:50 am

Hi Tim,

Congratulations, wishing you great success in all projects.

I’ve been on this diet for 3 weeks now. I monitor my progress using Bio-Electrical Impedance scan every week. I have a free day every Saturday and I’m very strict on avoiding fruits / any starchy carbs.

- First week I lost 9 pounds, with 2.2 pounds of fat and rest was water and muscle.

- Then NO change in the next two weeks. I’m wondering if I’m doing something wrong.

- I’m also getting constipation, I think I need more vegetables in my diet.

My typical diet is as follows:

Breakfast:

3 egg whites + 1 full egg

Lunch:

1 can of fava beans
Grilled Chicken Thigh

Dinner:

1 can of fava beans
Grilled Chicken Thigh

I’m not really exercising, my lifestyle is basically 9-7 desk work.

I think my main problem is lack of fiber vegetables. What do you think?

Thanks!


Hassan — June 26th, 2012, 9:53 am

Great post! I love it when people transform their lives.

In September 2010, I weighed 260lbs and by June 2011, I weighed 230lbs. 95% of the weight was lost between Apr – June. The next six months I only lost 10lbs. This was very frustrating because I was working out very hard and not seeing results. Between Jan – Mar 2012 I didn’t drop a pound. It came down to finding a way out or giving up. I decided to give SCD a shot and started it in Apr. Lost 10lbs in a month!

Just to experiment, I stopped using the SCD and my progress stopped immediately. This really works! I have been back on it for about 1.5 weeks. Already down 3lbs!

Thanks Tim!


Nichole — June 26th, 2012, 10:27 am

Tim, thanks for this post! I have taken all of the slow carb diet and have helped 3 different people lose around 40 pounds apiece by looking over their food (made them list out what they eat for a 3 day period) and telling them what exactly they can change to be on the slow carb LIFESTYLE.
Now, I am working with a client who has not only lost 45 pounds in 7 weeks on your SCD but has also done the following within that same 7 weeks:
- Lost 45 pounds (with a torn ACL), quit smoking, AND drinking
- Stopped eating fast food, microwave meals, and processed food (followed SCD)
- Started exercising twice daily (Swimming in the morning and weight training in the evening)
- Started cooking every meal and eating every two hours
- Reduced his jean size by 5 inches
- Reduced neck size by 1 inch
- Reduced chest size by 3 inches
- Got a sun-tan
- Started wearing contact lenses
- Replaced his clothes (they were too big to stay on!)
- Learned to paddle board and kayak
- Started attending church and rediscovered his faith
A lot of people struggle with just the eating part of just the workout part, but this guy has managed to lose weight and quit smoking with a torn ACL in only 7 weeks! (His story, with before and after photos: http://nicholecarlson.com/andys-story)
Also, because this guy has such an inspiring story and because of your 4HWW, I am making this into a product because I know people need answers and guidance to their health/fitness issues and I hope the challenges I’ve been able to help this guy with, I can help others with as well.
Thank you for all of the guidance you’ve given me since I read your book 6 years ago. You have changed my life and I hope to pay it forward in other’s lives!
PS We met at SXSW after your panel. I was the girl who quit her job, sold her car an hour later and was on a one-way ticket to Spain the next day.
Keep living big! Nichole


Barry — June 26th, 2012, 10:54 am

When I first went to Bangladesh to start my new business and ate the food there, i lost about 7kg in 2 days, thats 10% of my body wieght, still struggle now to put it back on.


Bongo Baby — June 26th, 2012, 11:38 am

Mr. Ferriss,
The SCD sounds really wonderful as per weight loss goes. But how exactly does it figure into a healthy lifestyle? Simple carbs are not inherently bad, they are essential fuel for your body. Try doing any moderate to high level workout and you’re body is bound to give up owing to the lack of energy. And, as the traditional Italian diet has shown, having simple carbs can be the foundation of a healthy diet (case in point, traditional pasta-based Italian diet). However, I do agree that simple carbs need to be taken in proportion to the activity level of your lifestyle, and for most people it is wise to keep its intake in check. I am just wondering if it is really wise to restrict all simple carb consumption to one day. Surely that is not enough provide the body with the energy it needs throughout the week, especially given that this diet restricts fruits as well.


Ramiro — June 26th, 2012, 11:58 am

Hi Tim, I lost a lot of weight right after your book came out last year and I follow the diet strictly. One year later I gained the weight back, and a little more. I am now going back to the Slow Carb Diet because I believe it is the most practical and effective diet I have been on. I like the fact that you use the psychology model of BJ Fogg in terms of making it easier to accomplish the behavior. Back when I used to be on the diet, I would have Friday as my cheat day and I would eat copious amounts of M&M from the vending machine at work. I become known as the M&M guy, and people would be surprised at how I would eat so much sugar in one day and still be skinny. Anyways, I stopped the diet after a few months but I kept the M&M habit going and now I have to get back on the diet because my pants are not fitting anymore :-). I wanted to bring out a question though: Do you think that the binge behavior one day a week may be detrimental to long-term weight management? I am asking you because the fact that I felt so free to eat without guilt one day, I believe may have continue after I stopped the diet. Just a thought and I would like to hear comments from others that may have taken the “bingeing” a little too far. Thanks
Ramiro


Leandra — June 26th, 2012, 12:41 pm

Hi Tim!

Just wanted to say thanks for writing the four hour body! I’ve lost 13 pounds over the last 6 weeks and my boyfriend lost 29 pounds with no effort at all on SCD. I’ve only recently started doing the kettlebell swing, which I love.

Actually it’s pretty amazing, cause I wasn’t able to lose anymore weight with my previous weight loss methods. I used a method of counting calories, eating as little as possible and I got all my protein from soy products. I read the book Skinny Bitch, so all I ate for breakfast was fruit and I stopped eating meat and fish and any other animal products. Next to that I was working out for 1,5 hours each day, primarily cardio. Altogether this lifestyle caused me to be very angry and cranky all the time. And I had no energy at all. When I decided to stop working out each day I started gaining a lot of weight back on rapidly.

I didn’t even mean to read another diet book (and I’ve read a lot of them!), but I had read the four hour workweek (great book btw, thanks for writing that one as well!) and as I was searching to see if you had written any other books. This is when I came across the four hour body. When I read the book so many things I had experienced in my own body started to make sense! So I became eager to give this lifestyle a go. When I told my boyfriend the principles of SCD he immediately said “Ok, I’m in, let’s start today!”. Which was a huge surprise to me, because he used to be more of a “I’ll start next monday” (and repeat that sentence for a year) person… What we both love about this lifestyle is that it is so simple! And the cheat day makes it really easy to stick with it.

My boyfriend was overweight and still has some pounds to go before he reaches his own weight goal. He will start doing the kettlebell swings too, to tone his body. I’m not overweight and I wasn’t really overweight to begin with, but I’m going to stick to this lifestyle to also tone my body more. I really love seeing the before and after picks of MP! This has really given me the mental boost I needed this week to carry on. Cause, just like her, I want to get really fit and get the most out of my body.

Oh and something I forgot to mention earlier is when we started this diet, after a few days I felt so unbelievable energetic and cheerfull!!! I really couldn’t believe it! This was when I realized how I had fucked up my own body and mind with my ridiculous eating habbits and workout regimes over the past years. And now six weeks later, I still feel like I can concur the world!

Thank you so much Tim! For the first time in years I’ve got enough energy to start up my muse! This lifestyle hasn’t just worked wonders for us physically, it has also helped me to think clear. I now have the right mindset to succeed with my plans.

I look forward to reading your next book, I know you can do it!

Thanks,

Leandra (from the Netherlands)


JessicaCzeck — June 26th, 2012, 1:36 pm

I didn’t think it was possible to gain weight as a vegan since I had lost 25lbs over the course of 4 months by going vegan and kept if off for over a year, but since I’ve been on a road trip since March (and eaten french fries for too many meals) I’ve gained a lot of my weight back. I have been doing a vegan version of the 4 hour body diet for just 2 weeks and I feel great! I drink a vegan protein shake (Vanilla SunWarrior), Chia Seeds, and Green Vibrance for breakfast. I have beans or tofu, vegetables, & nuts for lunch and dinner. And I and eat tons of fruit, bread, and rice on my free days! Knowing that I can eat my favorite foods on the free day makes it so much easier to eat the same boring meals all week. I haven’t weighed myself, but I definitely notice that my stomach is flatter, my clothes are looser and I feel highly motivated to keep on going! The red wine allowance is a life saver! I am excited to see my results after a few months. If I can do this on the road, as a vegan, I think anybody can! Thanks for creating such an easy, effective plan!


    Leslie — July 1st, 2012, 3:10 pm

    Thank you! I was curious as to how to make this diet vegan. Do you mix your protein powder with water or nut milk?


Rebecca — June 26th, 2012, 2:24 pm

Can you drink milk on the 4 hour Body program I haven’t gotten the book yet getting all info from websites… but thought it was prohibited


Derek Durkin — June 26th, 2012, 4:56 pm

Awesome to see so many people making a real change in their quality of life. Eating healthy and decreasing fat not only makes you feel better mentally and physically, it is also gives you a whole new level of confidence, and from reading the stories the confidence is overflowing! Congrats to all the success stories.


John — June 26th, 2012, 9:46 pm

I didn’t have a lot of weight to lose, but never seemed to be able to lose it. I tried the SCD and lost enough to meet my main goal.

Gotta say, though, that I’m having trouble staying away from some of my favorite foods. I’ve always loved a bowl of cereal in the morning…the cold milk and crunchy squares don’t have a compliment in the SCD. And its blueberry season….come on. blueberries!


Tora — June 26th, 2012, 9:48 pm

I’m just impressed that you wrote this long blog post when you’re on book deadline. The last thing I’d want to be doing is yet more writing.


Vaniah Nicdao — June 26th, 2012, 9:53 pm

Hi Tim,

Great article. It really astounds me reading the testimonies. SCD really works if you put strength through discipline and power to succeed just like what Ricardo said. To maintain a healthy lifestyle really takes discipline to master it. It does not happen overtime but you have to motivate yourself to do it without excuses. A person must make a choice and make a difference of his/her daily living. There maybe sacrifices like giving up your favorite food but it’s worth it.


Betty Rocker — June 26th, 2012, 10:19 pm

You’re amazing Tim, and such an inspiration. There is so much negativity and despair in the world, but with your continued commitment to positivity and dedication to health, you continue to be a Jedi for change in the direction the world needs to go. Never stop writing, and keep being awesome!!


Brandon — June 26th, 2012, 11:36 pm

Hey Tim those are some amazing results. I did the slow carb diet and saw quick results, but stopped because my wife was pregnant and didnt like that i was shedding weight as she was gaining. Anyways i lost 18 pounds the first four weeks and have pretty much maintained that by having a high protein breakfast and lunch. I am going to get both me and the wife on the diet here though very soon. Thanks for the books they are awesome, can’t wait for the four hour chef!


Ronald — June 27th, 2012, 1:45 am

Hey Tim
How important is it to repeat meals, do i really have to? What will probably be the resulT.

p.s– If anyone other then Tim can respond please do.


    JessicaCzeck — June 27th, 2012, 12:26 pm

    I’m not positive, but I think Tim has said the reasoning is that when you eat the same thing every day you tend to eat less. Can anyone verify this?


    Todd — June 27th, 2012, 12:39 pm

    Because it keeps you on track. Many people fail at diets b/c they don’t know how/what to eat. Tim believes eating the same things makes it easy. You can add variety as long as its inside the protocol.


Keshia Cazar — June 27th, 2012, 2:10 am

Hi

Great stories and very inspiring.

Nowadays, people are very conscious in their bodies, finding ways to get skinny. Many diet pills and other food supplements are now in the marketing trying to help those obese people get their ideal weight. But this article is very amazing losing 100 pounds just slow-card diet without artificial food intake. This will really help to the people want to achieve a good body statistics. But we have you have to remind yourself to do it religiously because this requires discipline. Because if you don’t have discipline then everything will be useless. You must set a goal for yourself so that at the end of the day you can reward yourself for doing a great job.

Discipline. Goal Setting. Then, you will love yourself.


Armie — June 27th, 2012, 2:47 am

Diet is something that I am not used to. I eat what I like and as much as I like. Though I gained weight sometimes but I immediately manage to lose it. I never even go to a gym and exercise. Let’s just say that I’m one of those few gifted ones.

The only advice that I can give is never to skip breakfast because you would tend to eat more if you do. I still believe in the saying that breakfast is the most important meal of the day and tried to live up to it till now. So far, I never have any problems with weight.


Miki — June 27th, 2012, 4:10 am

Hi Tim,

Thank you so much for producing such a masterpiece!

I was competing in Judo professionally before an injury forced me out for 10 months. As a result, I put on about 20kg, lost about 10kg by just monitoring how much I weighed everyday, and when I tried to go back into Judo, I got injured again, which required a surgery… you can probably guess what that did to my weight. This went on for a while, until November 2010. I remembered reading your post about SCD, and decided to give it ago. I then bought the book and have been following this lifestyle since and lost those 20kg. I’ve bought some free weights and a couple of KB and follow Occam’s Protocol or G2F regime.

As most protocols in the book are meant for body recomposition (except maybe the superhuman), what would you recommend for maintaining the results I’ve achieved so far? After a while, I get stuck on G2F and Occam’s.

Thanks again for putting all of these priceless gems into a funny and easy to read and implement book (loved the story about Dave Palumbo, can’t tell it without laughing!).

Cheers,
Miki.


Sam — June 27th, 2012, 6:32 am

I have always been an athlete (played basketball and baseball in college) and have continued to run and play sports, even as my weight slowly grew from 225 lbs to 336 lbs. When my sister gave me the 4 hr body for Christmas 2010 the light clicked and I started the diet a few weeks in January 2011. I have always been a runner and I set a goal of going from 330s lbs to 3:30s in a marathon, with the intention of doing it in the Boston Marathon in 2012. After dropping 90 lbs in 2011 and running quite a few half marathons (including one in 1:40:00), I was ready to train for Boston and was ready when Marathon Monday rolled around in April. The only problem it was 90 degrees out. I still got through it, though not in the time I was hoping for (4:37). After giving my legs a week to recover, I decided to give it another go in the Providence Marathon 3 weeks later, since I had put the training in. I finished it in 3:39:14, so I was able to accomplish my goal of 330s to 3:30s in a marathon. All of this would not have been possible without the slow carb diet. Thanks Tim!


Bill — June 27th, 2012, 7:09 am

Tim
I’ve heard/read where it takes 2 weeks for the body to adjust to a ketogenic state (burning fat for fuel) and for the metabolism to stay ketogenic, one has to commit to a low carb diet. Does the Saturday dieters gone wild disrupt this process?
I’ve enjoyed the SCD for several months and have taken off the last 10 pounds easily (eluded me for years). I open up my carb window before a strenuous 1 plus hour bike/run and for 30 minutes after. I wish I could say I have uber energy most of the time…but I’m certainly keeping an eye on my variables (2 kids still disrupting my sleep).
Does one have to delve into the spartan low carb lifestyle with both feet to take the SCD to the next level….which I interpret as a ketogenic metabolism?
thanks, enjoy your work!


Bob — June 27th, 2012, 9:56 am

Hi all!

So I am about to start the SCD, I saw some pictures of myself at a barbecue last weekend and that was that. Time to lose some weight.

One question I have though – in reading up on the diet I see you can drink all of the diet soda you want, and I drink Diet Mountain Dew. But I also see you can’t drink fruit juice, and I just noticed the second ingredient in Diet Mt. Dew is concentrated orange juice. Should I stop drinking it for the diet? I’m going to cut it back anyways, but stopping would be hard because I like it so much. Thanks!

Bob


Joel C — June 27th, 2012, 10:08 am

I know that rebounding was used as a method to lose weight for contestants on the Biggest Loser. And I know of countless rebound users who have lost a lot of weight through safely rebounding.


James — June 27th, 2012, 10:34 am

Funny how a doctor recommends nearly just the opposite! http://www.drmcdougall.com/video/starch_solution.html


Ryan — June 27th, 2012, 12:44 pm

Great post and congrats to everyone who’s making progress!

A friend actually gave me your book as a present recently and i’m finally cracking it open and I’m definitely going to take the same journey others have taken before me in following this diet on the road to better health and wellness.


Ali May — June 27th, 2012, 2:49 pm

Wondering if cheese and butter are “no-no’s” ? Doesn’t mention that. I don’t drink milk, in fact I hate it but I love cheese and Im assuming cheese/butter/coconut milk/etc. is fat so it would not be a part of the diet?


Caroline S. — June 27th, 2012, 5:45 pm

I see you have renamed it the “Slow Carb Diet.” I tell people that it’s the “4-Hour Body Diet” but I fondly call it “The Fracking Diet” (the good kind of fracking). It’s one that really works, because I have lost 29.4 lbs and 29 total inches in 53 weeks. I am doing it slowly, I know, but because I am of a certain age, it is the only thing that has worked for me. I intend to stay on it forever because it’s fracking good!


Fitlink Australia — June 27th, 2012, 6:35 pm

Wow seeing the photos of those who lost a lot of weight is inspiring i’ve tried everything and it seems nothing works for me… Should I try this?


Brett — June 27th, 2012, 10:28 pm

One aspect of the diet mentioned here that would be very tough for me to endure is no fruit whatsoever. I eat fruit everyday, not a lot of it, but I do consume it daily. I restrict my intake to berries and only as part of a larger meal. Strawberries have been referred to as a “superfood” because of how powerful they are at assisting the body in fighting disease. The same can be said for blueberries (in small amounts).


Kerry — June 27th, 2012, 11:04 pm

Hi
I’d been overweight for a while, and I started on the diet in mid-January 2011 with my weight 85 kg (187 lb) and waist 38.5″. I broke with it for a week when I was playing a hockey tourney in the first week of March 2011 and came back from the tourney with an injured knee and needing physio. By then I was 82 kg (180 lb) with waist 36.5″. I did no running or fitness work until October 2011, but by the second week of June 2011 I had already reached my initial target weight of 75 kg (165 lb) with a waist of 34″. I hadn’t been that weight since shortly after I first retired from playing top-grade hockey as a 24 year old (I’m now 40). All that was without any running or going to the gym. I then wavered around that weight give or take a bit until January this year when I decided to get properly fit for hockey using kettle-bells (I’d always had fitness issues because I hate running for fitness, plus I needed to get my knee back up to full strength). I ended up doing a lot of steps on the way to uni and am now around 72.5 – 73 kg (160 lb) with waist 32.5″ and am running 7 km a game without subbing off (that’s an average of 1 km a minute – I’ve been using a Garmin heartrate monitor with GPS) – the fittest I have ever been. (Comparison for weight: when I was 18 and playing two games of hockey a weekend (school + club) and very cut down I was 68 kg (six-pack territory) – but even then I didn’t have the aerobic fitness I have now because of exercise-induced asthma – I put the fix down to more fat and reduced carbs, but who knows).

Interesting points:
1. measuring inches is highly recommended (TI change of -20.5″) as they tend to show before weight – interestingly, my hip measurement moved first, well before my waist, which stopped me feeling that I wasn’t making progress.
2. I settled on eating only two meals a day – breakfast and late lunch/early dinner – and this worked for me. Meals are steak (scotch fillet, I think the US term is ribeye?) with peas/beans (I know, steak for breakfast, terrible (and expensive)).
3. I found that by binging on one/two bad foods on Saturdays I lost my taste for those foods. This means I’ve now run out of bad foods for binge days and just do an extra meal or two (sometimes adding sausages) on my binge days.
4. I have one cheat: I have milk and a teaspoon of sugar in my cups of tea (which I have about ten a day of) – which may explain why I can go two meals a day without getting hungry.
5. I’ve found a change in taste towards fat – I’ve switched from low-fat milk to full-cream when I can find it and try to get the fattiest steaks I can (being New Zealand they are grass-fed – I’d prefer lamb chops but they’re outrageously expensive).
6. I lent the book to a friend in February and haven’t seen it since ;-)
7. I recommend Pavel Tsatsouline’s book Super Joints – its done wonders not just for my knee but also my posture in general, getting rid of my lifelong slouch is quite an achievement.

Many thanks for all the info and encouragement.


Hannah Joy — June 27th, 2012, 11:45 pm

Wow! I have never tried SCD but I want to give it a try :)

Whenever I hear new lose weight methods this is what I usually say to myself. I also hear most people saying “I’m giving it a try.” but end up giving up on the first day or worse, not trying anything at all.

I liked it when you said, “put it on the calendar and make it happen”. It is always better to write and get serious with the plans that we have in mind so that we will be more motivated to really accomplish them.

This inspired me to pick up my pen, get moving and make things happen again. Thanks! :)


Chris — June 28th, 2012, 5:12 am

Some excellent examples of how people can make dramatic changes and I like how you simplified the diet to four simple rules– photos really show the improvements.

The FourHourBody (Zen habits, BJ Fogg etc) is great for challenging perceptions about the body and habits. Too often people think the body and their habits are fixed and therefore do nothing about it.

The same can be said of ‘drinking’, where many people who drink too much seemed to be face with the option of either to continue or to stop. But the ‘stop’ option is really for alcoholics (day drinkers?). Many heavy drinkers don’t see themselves as ‘alcoholics’ and are not keen on stopping. Though they’re probably be more open to moderating. Unfortunately at the moment the ‘best’ route to moderation is still being discovered. I hope to make this clearer for people, like you have made changing the body and managing time clearer for People

http://themoderatedrinker.blogspot.nl/2011/10/how-to-be-moderate-drinker.html

Thanks for moving the goalposts and helping people become more proactive about their health.


Ben — June 28th, 2012, 2:41 pm

Research is backing up SCD:

http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=when-dieting-not-all-calo


Fran — June 28th, 2012, 2:54 pm

Hi Tim / Hola Tim,

(Spanish) He comprado tu libro y me he quedado decepcionado en algun aspecto, pesa mucho, demasiado para pegarle a una foca, pobre foca.

Soy Español del sureste (Murcia) y aqui tenemos los mejores vegetales del mundo. No tengo manera de comprar y comer casi ninguno de los ingredientes que mencionas.

Por favor, devuelveme el dinero y toma tu libro (es broma), o dame alguna alternativa con alimentos Españoles.

Bueno, quien come aqui judias, frijoles y coliflor.

Por favor mas alternativas mediterraneas.

Gracias – Fran

(English) I bought your book and I was disappointed in some aspect, too heavy, too much to hit a seal, poor seal.

I’m Spanish Southeast (Murcia) and here we have the best vegetables in the world. I have no way to buy and eat almost none of the ingredients you mention.

Please, give me back the money and takes your book (just kidding), or give me some Spanish food alternative.

Well, who here eats beans, beans and cauliflower.

Please Mediterranean more choices.

Thanks – Fran


Fabio — June 28th, 2012, 3:59 pm

Hello Tim, I am half way through the 4HB and a question came up, since I could not find the answer on the book yet ( it might me there ) but I just reed the 4 recommended chapter for weight lost and could not find it.
So I decided to send you a question here that might be a question of other also, and I hope you can find the time to shine some light on my problem.
Tim, my problem is that I do work out before breakfast, and normally I consume a glass of malto, two L-carnitine pills and a caffeine pill, and than hit the treadmill for 30 min. Only after one hour maybe two is that I get back home to have my breakfast, and I can totally have eggs and beans for breakfast, no problem there, but I just don’y know what to eat before going to the gim at 8 o’clock in the morning that will not be heavy on my stomach and can still keep me on the diet, since I just hate working out on a full stomach.
Tim, you are helping me get out of a 20 years hole with the book, and hope you can help me out with this questions and maybe help some more people.
Take care and thank you one more time.


Divya — June 28th, 2012, 4:21 pm

Dear Tim,

Thank-you so much for helping me change my life! I have passed on your diet to my mom, brother, and plenty of my friends. Nothing but positive results from all. I finally have a body I love, more than anything I am finally listening to my body.

Apart from losing weight the spin-off benefits have been remarkable. I breathe better, sleep better, my skin cleared(!), and given greater energy during the day I focus better during lectures.


NCA — June 28th, 2012, 4:32 pm

Tim,

Another great post…BTW, how does it really feel to know that you have changed so many lives for the better? Must feel outstanding every day.

Best,

NCA


Lewis Powell — June 28th, 2012, 7:46 pm

Family started Monday. 5 adults: mom & dad & 3 daughters. 4 younger daughters not so much. Biggest challenge so far: getting a useful menu since we all love/hate different items. No universal likes. Big questions: are hot dogs ok? Smoked sausage? Peanut butter? Yogurt? Beef jerky? Is there a definitive list of slow-carb foods? Is there a handy list of sauce recipes? Is there a longer list of legumes than in the book? Thanks, all!


    Farid Behnia — July 2nd, 2012, 1:55 pm

    Hi Lewis,

    Sounds great that the entire family is slow-carbing. If you look through the 4-hour body category of the blog, you can find more inspiration.

    But try to just keep it simple and measure. The tracking will make the boring fascinating.

    All the best,

    Farid


        Lewis Powell — July 2nd, 2012, 3:31 pm

        We’re measuring. But could use more recipes for sauces. Is there a good place to find them? Also, Trying to find the right foods at the grocery store. What about hot dogs, smoked sausage, peanut butter & beef jerky? We are reading ingredients and avoiding anything with Sugar grams > 0, or with Sugar or Corn Syrup listed in ingredients. Is there a longer list of good SCD foods?


        Ryan Burkitt — July 2nd, 2012, 4:28 pm

        type what you want in and it tells if it is SCD:

        http://www.eslowcarbdiet.com


        Lewis Powell — July 4th, 2012, 2:59 pm

        Thanks for the link. It helps but is flawed. It isn’t thorough & has errors. It says ‘Sweet Potatoes’ are not allowed, but the 4 Hour Body book includes a recipe for sweet potatoes. Not good. & Hebrew National hot dogs & sausages only include ingredients that are authorized, but they are not addressed by the link. I am thinking the best solution is to read the ingredients lists & exclude all sugar & corn syrup.


Michelle J. — June 29th, 2012, 5:36 am

So far I’ve bought 6 copies of the 4HB – they keep disappearing/get given away.

I started February of last year, but didn’t get seriously into the program until May. By August I lost 23% bodyfat and had enough difference in weight distribution to make walking down the street a much different experience.

My first main goal which was to have a shot glass ass was achieved in July – Tequila since you asked :)

Now 1 year or so later I’ve maintained but gone back up to my more comfortable percentage of 34% – I like being a bit more on the curvy side. I’ve decided though to be badass and go glacier climbing in Zermatt this fall so I’m going back to 4HB full time to get down to 24% by October so I don’t end up needing to be carried down the alps by a St. Bernard.

Thanks for the awesome body Tim!

M


Lee RideFar — June 30th, 2012, 5:44 pm

Hi Tim, I first heard about you on the Adam Carolla podcast. It took me until Mid January 2012 to buy the 4HB book. From January 27th to today, I have lost just over 20 pounds and my girlfriend has lost over 30. As you suggested we documented everything (food, measurements, pictures, etc). We were able to de-construct our diet and rebuild it with the 4HB. Our lives have changed (and others who I recommended 4HB too).

Thank you!


    Farid Behnia — July 2nd, 2012, 1:48 pm

    Congrats!

    I’m interested in finding out how you got other people on board with 4HB. Were they curious themselves or you convinced them?


        Lee RideFar — July 2nd, 2012, 4:29 pm

        They were curious and the visible results spoke for themselves! I was also able to back up the story with plenty of facts I knew from the book.

        For others it didn’t matter, they need to figure it out for themselves.


brian — June 30th, 2012, 7:37 pm

I lost at least 10 pounds on the scd in 2 weeks, but my scale was messed up so it showed I was losing weight not that much weight and putting it back on (it said i was orginally 261, and last time a checked on that scale (which was today) i was 257, now I know I am a little less than 240 pounds, and really starting to see changes, thanks tim!

(PS: I am currently 16, so i really shouldn’t be this overweight.)


    Farid Behnia — July 2nd, 2012, 1:50 pm

    Great!

    Why not share your experience with wguru who has commented down below (July 2nd)?

    Cheers


Bartosz Majewski — July 1st, 2012, 6:47 am

Hey guys,

I was wondering about adding some honey for slow carb diet. Is it ok to add a 1/2 of table spoon to coffe instead of sugar or sweeters?


    Farid Behnia — July 2nd, 2012, 1:46 pm

    No. Besides, if you have to ask, don’t eat it.


Andy Brice — July 1st, 2012, 1:27 pm

My results with the slow carb diet were a lot less impressive than those reported in the article.But I wasn’t that overwight to start with and I did lose 14lbs that I hadn’t been able to shift by other means. I now have the same waist size I did 20 years ago and I have kept the weight off.You can see my experiences here:
http://successfulsoftware.net/2011/10/30/losing-weight-with-a-minimum-of-willpower/


David — July 1st, 2012, 8:36 pm

my experience with SCD has been somewhat positive. There was some weight loss. Binging on the once a week became a bit difficult though. (discomfort) Also noticed a significant amount of muscle loss. Need to supplement weight training to compensate.


EnglishRose — July 1st, 2012, 11:01 pm

Very sound plan. Always works for me.
However some of us are sugar addicts and just liek an alcoholic would not have gin on Sundays or drug addict have their fix of heroin on a Saturday we cannot do days off. You come off your addictive substance (sugar) and you have to keep it off to remove your desire for it so for those in that position I do not suggest priming the pump of your addiction with a “day off” shooting sugar as it were, once a week. Those in that category may also want to avoid alcohol which I do not really like anyway. I am yeast intolerant (and it si full of sugar so not a great product for sugar addicts to have ever really)..

Also plenty of us have problems with dairy products (and avoid legumes too).

Otherwise sounds great. I had my DNA tracked back 25,000 years by oxford ancestors – my ancestor was in the caucasus mountains probably eating mostly leaves, fruits, veg and when she could get it fish and meat. An article in yesterday’s Sunday Times (2 m years ago, early ancestors) found from dental plaque DNA that we ate “bark, leaves, sedges, grasses, fruit, palm, parts of trees, shrubs and herbs”.


Vegard — July 2nd, 2012, 5:10 am

Hi, what about starches after strength workouts? Is this for bulking only or also a good idea for the fat loss focus? I workout 3 times a week with a full body program with compound movements.

So starches after workout + cheat day or only on cheat day?


    Farid Behnia — July 2nd, 2012, 1:44 pm

    It’s OK to have white carbs within 30 min after a resistance training workout.


wguru — July 2nd, 2012, 11:31 am

exciting to see so many success stories.
My son (15 years old) and myself are unable to do
this. We feel hungry all the time, in spite of
eating a good amount.

breakfast:
2 eggs scrambled with veggies,
1 cup of tea with 2 tbsp of cream

lunch:
pork cutlets (2)
steamed veggies (cauliflower, carrots)
1/2 bowl of boiled lentils
unsweetened iced tea

had a cup of tea with cream in the evening.

By dinner time my Son was feeling hungry and tired.
I was hungry all day. We finally broke the SCD with
a deli sandwich and a glass of milk.

my questions for the group:

Is it okay for a 15 year old to do the SCD?
He is 5’3″ and weighs 150 lbs. He needs to lose
20-25 lbs and lose fat around the belly area.

I am 5’7″ and weigh 158 lbs.I would like to lose 10
lbs and some belly fat.

what needs to be done to feel normal and not feel
hungry and tired during SCD days?

any inputs appreciated. Thanks All.


    Nichole — July 2nd, 2012, 1:11 pm

    wguru,

    You need to be eating every 2-3 hours, which means you should be having at least 6 meals a day. Also, cream is not a great thing to be having(on a side note). You should not be hungry and you should not be dieting. Those thing mean you are doing something wrong, you just need to evaluate what.

    Here’s an example of what I suggest(use in any order),
    1. (meal one) 2 eggs, 1/2 black beans(for carbs/energy) and salsa
    2. (second meal of the day 2-3 hours later) 1/2 cup pf black beans, 1 cup of chicken, salsa
    3. (again 2-3 hours later) medium sized sweet potato(no butter)- you can microwave this or chop it up and eat it like potato chips(also makes a good snack to keep with you if you are out and about in case you get hungry), also you can have a can of tuna or a cup of chicken with this
    4. can of green beans, 1/2 black beans, and a can of tuna(don’t put mayo in the tuna- it works fine with mustard and sweet pickles-don’t knock it before you try it)
    5. salad with spinach, chicken, and black beans (no creamy dressing!) and clear dressing
    6. protein shake

    -obviously these are examples and should be changed to your dietary needs and what you are doing for the day.
    -always carry a snack with you when you are out(I take raw, chopped sweet potatoes in my purse)
    -listen to your body. If you are hungry make a good food choice
    -don’t go over 3 hours because then you will be hungry or run out of energy

    Hope this helps ya. Let me know if you have more questions.


    Farid Behnia — July 2nd, 2012, 1:41 pm

    Eat four meals and increase your portion sizes. You aren’t eating enough legumes either.

    You shouldn’t feel hungry on this diet at all.


    Ryan Burkitt — July 2nd, 2012, 1:59 pm

    wguru – So you tried it for half a day and gave up? That’s not much time to see how it plays out. But anyway here are my two cents worth (i’m no expert by any means)

    1)for starters EAT MORE!!
    Breakfast was just two eggs and some veggies. double it and add some beans.
    -Eat until you are full, this isn’t a diet that you are supposed to be hungry on! make a bunch and take it with you for your day so if you are hungry then you can eat the right stuff. Keep it in balance every meal. I was into the Zone diet a while back and it makes a lot of sense to have every meal be a balance of Protein/Good Carbs/and fat. Meat portion should be the size of your palm and veggies the size of your full hand when on your plate.
    I find that when I am doing this SCD well, I am full for longer than a fast food or ‘regular’ meal. I also have less cravings for sweets and junk food. But that may take some time to kick in. Your body will be in withdrawal mode after giving up your normal meals.

    I don’t see any reason someone of any age can’t be on the SCD it isn’t really a diet, it is a healthy life eating plan. It would be like asking a nutritionist if it was ok to not feed your kid cake for breakfast. Because as far as your body is concerned toast, or Pancakes, or most cereals are the same as cake.

    My take on this SCD is to incorporate a few other thoughts into it, so I combine SCD, The Zone (keeping each meal in balance), and the Paleo diet (by eating as healthy as possible on the SCD) so that means that the protein choice isn’t low quality ground beef, it is Grass feed beef or Free run chicken/eggs. and the veggies are organic.

    Of course, that is the “GOAL” and the ultimate place I want to be, I still eat canned beans and don’t get to the market to get the good meat very often. So do what you can and do the best you can.

    If you find that the SCD isn’t for you (hey nothing works for everyone!)Take a look at the Paleo diet as well, SCD is about losing weight in a healthy way. Where as Paleo is more about health. Since neither of you have much weight to loose it might be what you need.
    here is a good resource for it: http://www.marksdailyapple.com


    Texas Kel — July 2nd, 2012, 3:01 pm

    I agree. You are not eating enough. I’m an average woman who doesn’t need to loose more than another 5 pounds. I have not worked out for the last year because chasing a newborn was enough work. But he isn’t that much work anymore, so I’ve rearranged things to start at a great gym with daycare next week.

    I have 3 small kids (8, 5, 1). They all eat Slow Carb. I do add fruit and some brown/wild rice to their meals. All of them are very fit and lean. They don’t drink dairy milk, but nut milks. Rarely do they ask for snacks, but they have access to all types of fruit and cheese/yogurt during the day.

    This is what I ate today….

    B
    2-3 eggs
    1 cup beans
    several broccoli flowers
    4 pieces of bacon
    coffee w/ 1 tea cream

    L
    2-3 pork ribs
    spinach salad with beans, 1/2 avocado (total salad about 1/2 of a plate full)

    Snack I rarely eat:
    2 pieces of jerky
    small hand full of almonds

    D
    2-3 pieces of fried chicken
    1 cup beans
    steamed broccoli / cauliflower mix

    Yes, this is a LOT of food. I’m never hungry. I eat till I’m satisfied. If I don’t finish a plate I just put it in the refrig. If I get hungry again I pull it out and finish whats on it.

    I also drink unsweetened ice tea. I found an herbal flavor I like… Roiboos/Vanilla


Sean — July 2nd, 2012, 8:22 pm

Hey Tim, I have a quick question. I’m trying to get down to about 8-10% (I’m at 15% according to pictures and everything I’ve tried so far, but I havent tried DEXA/calipers)

My question is, I’m at about 235, and my LBM is 200 lbs. I want to get down without burning off a ton of muscle, and was wondering if you have any portion suggestions?

I am doing 1/4 cup of lentils, 5 eggs, spinach, then either 8 oz flounder or 8 ozchicken with lentils and spinach, with a 40 gram protein shake right before work, and Universal Torrent http://www.bodybuilding.com/store/univ/torr.html (and maybe a scoop of karboload https://www.truenutrition.com/p-1168-karboload-40-servings.aspx) . I’m thinking I should double up in the lentils, or am I overthinking this? I haven’t felt hungry, but I was trying to figure out my calories and I think it was something like 1680-2000 calories which is not nearly enough.

Hoping to reproduce the 20 lbs lost, which would put me right where I want (I think) in a month. The book is awesome, I’ve been doing the icing on my neck and things of that sort, and you already helped me put about 50-65 lbs on my bench because I didnt know about the power position!


Zara — July 3rd, 2012, 3:00 am

I have used this website to check some of the foods I have been consuming for the SCD http://www.eslowcarbdiet.com Very useful. I have been eating Baked Beans on the diet and found that they are not SCD friendly…..

I have started this diet twice since this article was published and just failed a second time (ate a chocolate biscuit). I am finding it incredibly hard, WHY? I am 10kgs over weight so I do have a bit to lose, keep telling myself if I follow this diet for one month I will be my desired weight.

I am unfortunately craving sugar, I know how bad it is but after two days I basically fall in a heap (I must be an absolute sugar addict!). I really want to follow this diet and was thinking of eating some low fat jelly for the first week, once I can see some weight loss I will feel more motivated. Presently I am feeling I can’t actually lose the weight.

As people have said above I am enjoying hearing the amazing results so many are achieving. Good luck to all in my situation, I am having vegetable stir fry for dinner with beef!


Tim Habenicht — July 3rd, 2012, 9:47 am

Hello All,

So, has this diet jacked up anyone’s blood PH levels? For the past two years my diet has essentially consisted of:

Eggs
Chicken
Legumes
Vegetables

The only alkalizing foods out of those was the vegetables. Until recently, I knew absolutely nothing about blood PH levels, and I realized it is VERY important to remain on the alkaline side, as oppossed to the acidic side. If you stop eating fruits (which is required in the SCD), it is incredibily hard to maintain a PH level that favors alkaline. If your blood PH level is acidic, it can

“lead to a variety of negative health effects. A body that tends toward acidity heightens the risk for infections from bacteria, yeast, parasites, and viruses. All of these “critters” seek out and thrive in an acid environment. Not only are you more susceptible to infections such as colds and the flu, degenerative diseases like cancer, arthritis, heart disease and osteoporosis are promoted if your pH is consistently acid. If disease is to be prevented or successfully managed, an acid pH must be overcome.”

I used to eat fruit all the time and have started to again, and I honestly feel 10X better than I did before- just with the addition of fruit and Apple Cider Vinegar. For literally the past year or so (and I have been on the SCD for two years), I have been plagued by a sore throat, ulcers, and tiredness (all common when your body is acidic). Since the addition of fruit and Apple Cider Vinegar – no sore throat or ulcers, and “less” tiredness ha.

Can anyone shed some light on this? Am I missing something? I would MUCH rather eat fruit to have a balanced PH and avoid the health risks, than not eat it simply to avoid the frutose.


m m m — July 3rd, 2012, 6:15 pm

I havn’t been able to lose any weight yet on the slow carb diet. I’m stuck at 180. All the extra weight is in the stomach area.
what am I doing wrong? its been about a month.

I bike almost every day, sometimes more than once and I bike very hard and sometimes very fast.
I’m doing cat vomits and squats, and shopping for a bosu ball to do miatatic crunches (one of my kung fu masters say a CHAIR is fine, but I like the look of the half ball thing much better for those).

my diet is delicious, I’m totally happy with it. and eating out is easy if you just eliminate a few items, so if I get dragged to a restaurant I can hang.

breakfast: 2 or 3 organic eggs. 1/3 a can of refried beans. zuchini with onions fried in raw organic coconut oil.

lunch: organic lettuce,onion,cucumber,kale,purslane,half an avocado, a few cherry tomatoes. balsamic and olive oil dressing. sometimes a FEW truly raw almonds (ie: NOT trader joes) which are soaked in water for a few hours first. (maybe 10 of them tops)

dinner:
EITHER::
a half pound of hamburger fried with bell peppers and onions and refried beans with amazing green or red salsa
OR
a pound of WILD salmon baked with onions and broccoli in coconut oil
and some kelp “noodles” on top. (with rosemary from the garden)

for snacks I sometimes eat a tablespoon of CHIA SEED GEL, but not very often really. (that expands to about a cup almost)

binge day I do the same breakfast and lunch really and I eat 2 pints of dark chocolate Coconut bliss, which is agave and so very high in fructose. I have a hard time even wanting to binge honesty.
I’m HAPPY with my normal meals, I don’t have anything I want to binge on besides that ice cream. I also might get a hamburger on binge day (with a bun)

I’m not sure what I”m doing wrong…I’m going to step up the exercise with miatatic crunches every day very soon, my extra weight is ALL in my stomach. It’s not HUGE, but It’s there still.

also doing oxypowder and colasan and water enemas sometimes.
drinking lots of super healthy green teas. Yerba matte for sure.

stuck at 180,

what am I doing wrong here?
too much protein maybe?
could that small amount of coconut oil be the problem?
I kinda doubt it, I’m eating a few tablespoons a day of coconut oil at the most.

if I step up the exercise a tiny bit more that might do it
just the miatatic crunches, that alone could be huge I suspect…

anyway, you rock Tim.
also, what instruments do you play?
just curious, I know you play


    Tim Ferriss — July 3rd, 2012, 11:23 pm

    Hi MMM,

    Thanks for the comment. Some suggestions real fast:

    - Eat more protein at lunch
    - Cut down on the exercise. Diet is for fat lass and exercise is for muscle (generally), so you lose your weight with food choices. Too much exercise will increase chronic cortisol levels and is often reflected in stubborn abdominal fat.
    - Ensure proper sleep and drink more water
    - Eat regular ice cream on cheat day instead of something sweetened with agave.

    For instruments, I’ve only ever made progress with Irish flute and 5-piece drum kit :)

    Hope that helps!

    Tim


m m m — July 3rd, 2012, 6:40 pm

supplemental:

my lunch salad also includes about a cup of green and orange lentils.
my dinner fajitas also includes a half avocado
(hamburger is grass fed beef)


Mr Disapoited — July 4th, 2012, 1:15 am

HI.Tim.
I’m now 6th week trying to loose weight going after your cues.
-I dropped all White (our main national food and its quite hard for me)
-dropped fruits (easy)
-I’m eating 4 meals a day (instead of 2)
-Skipped deep fried
-Dropped milk products
-I drink 2 times the water i did
-Eat Pagg in proper stacks (we don’t have it here so I take like 8 pills every time, my GF is looking at me and puts a finger to her forehead..)
-do cheat days hardcore, fries, pizza, vodka, beer, ice cream, chips..(it’s my weakest point because my cheat day is in most cases 1.5 day Saturady/sunday cannot help it really as I have a social drinking life)
-I changed my gym plan form 3 times to 2 times a week and do a mix of resistance training form the gain mass chapter and the lose weight moves (6 min abbs, kettlebell swing)
-I also take the Cod liver oil
-I eat lots of eggs, chicken, fish, veggies and not much more tbh.
-I have noticed some changes in my posture but I can predict they are just an effect of doing more exercise.

I have started to go down first 3 weeks like 3kg and then I went straight up.
I have my wedding soon I was sure 2 months would be ideal to drop 10 kg…but now I have only 1 month left and some frustration on my back.

Now the numbers:
6 weeks
Weight: form 101,7 kg to 99,3
Waist: 108 to 108…
Hips: form 114 to 115….
Biceps sum: 68 to 68,5

I’m redding the loose weight chapter again and again to see where did I go wrong and I can’t find it.

BTW: I have 2 more questions
Can I eat corn and corn flower products?
What about cheese?
I haven’t been eating them because I don’t know if I can.

Your books ware a great read, I enjoyed it a lot, but now I would like to have some effects:)

Regards

M.


Harry — July 4th, 2012, 3:44 am

Hi Tim,
Thanks for the great post! The real weight loss example from MP is astonishing! I have a few questions-

1. Would it be better if dinner is before 9pm, and 3 hours before sleep? This is as our metabolism tend to slow down significantly at night

2. Also, would it better to have gluten-free chicken thighs instead of frozen ones for dinner?


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:55 pm

    1. yes.

    2. yes.


catch-22 — July 4th, 2012, 9:02 am

Holy c**p! This is a damn long comment thread :)

Going over all those great stories, infos, questions, etc. I might have missed the particular probs I keep having with SCD, so maybe someone can help me out and/or point me into the right direction.

I have been on SCD for quite a while now, but am still stuck with a good amount of body-fat hiding my abs and other muscles I have built up.
Hence a few questions:

- Before working out at the gym (about 2 times a week, mainly weight training, rarely some cardio) is it ok to throw in some carbs to have energy for the workout? Like a banana or some nuts and berries.

- How bad are dairy products/milk really? I like putting some goat cheese into my salad for example…

- Since I haven´t seen pourable egg-whites in Germany, I just use whole eggs for breakfast. Is that a problem?

- What sort of beans are ok? Since it´s hard to get black beans or pinto beans in Germany. At least ready-to-use/canned ones.
Are baked beans or kidney beans ok?

- And of course my biggest prob: How counterproductive is alcohol?
Since I have to admin, I quite like my chilled after work beer…. ;)
How bad would it be to limit the intake of alcohol to the weekend?
Would that help or does it still kill the desirable metabolic effects of the SCD?

I ´m just so unsure on how to balance the sports/workout part with the SCD rules…

Any help and ideas are welcome!!

Cheers!


Samuel — July 4th, 2012, 11:40 pm

This is an excellent article. The advice not to drink your calories is one that I’ve been applying recently with excellent results. I find it harder to limit my food intake but far easier to give up favoured beverages.


Stephen — July 5th, 2012, 1:55 am

Our results after 365 Days of the Slow Carb Diet. I wish I could post my patients results here as well.

Tim, your book has changed the lives of at least 30 of my patients. It has hands down been the best, easiest to adopt and fastest to implement diet I have every used.

It is a perfect model for many of our diabetic patients as well, even with the cheat day. I have seen several triple digit weight loss stories using your diet in my community health center.

Thank you!!!

Here is a post of our most recent results:
http://www.4hourlife.com/2012/05/25/365-days-of-the-four-hour-body-results-and-tracking/

Take Care,

Stephen


Patrick — July 5th, 2012, 5:35 am

4 Days in and my bloat has gone!
Energy up and some notes on my changes that some might like to know:
1. Switched Cappuccino to Long Macchiato with a dash of cold milk – plain coffee is just too foul and I’ll test to see if 20mL of milk is really that bad
2. No potatoes, bread or pasta for dinner – it’s pretty easy to have just meat and veg. I had a nice porterhouse tonight with beans and broccoli – great!
3. Pizza is my absolute favourite – that will be cheat day now…
4. Lots of water if I get hungry – then I’m full and too busy peeing
5. Not stopping after 1 stuff up – I ate a gluten free cookie thinking that would be ok but it’s not – no biggie, move on
6. Most sandwich shops will do a plate of salad with some cold meat instead of a sandwich – tabbouleh with ham and chicken is my fav
7. I’m at work so no need/temptation of snacks – It’s also that all the protein stumps your appetite
8. Boiled eggs have been great for breakfast – 2 of those with some salt and pepper are superb and really keep you going
9. Cinnamon and Vanilla extract in my coffee has been a great help too

If someone has come across a great list of other ideas I’d love to know.

Power to the Slow Carb!


Lester — July 5th, 2012, 7:59 am

Wow truly inspirational stories. I am 6 months in and feel the hardest part is over, my cravings have mostly vanished. The main tricky part is timing and preparing meals as I am on the road a fair bit during the day. The mirror is the best source of inspiration now!

Keep on Keeping On folks
http:the4hourbodyblog.com


Travis — July 5th, 2012, 1:10 pm

I think you need another high intensity learning experience to clear your mind and make you feel Awesome; ever thought of obtaining a skydiving certificate / learn how to wingsuit fly? :)


Dave — July 5th, 2012, 3:02 pm

Hi Tim,

I found a copy of the 4 hour body and am going through it as we speak.
I’ve drawn a line in the sand and made it my singular objective to lose weight, get fit, feel healthy and live longer.

I’ve started on the slow carb diet, or as close to it as I can in my current situation. I’m also trying to get my family to eat healthier (tough when your parents are very stuck in their ways).

Looking forward to the 4 hour chef, It’s on my Christmas list. I do wish it could have come sooner since I’m currently stuck and looking for good recipes which I can eat on the SCD.

Anyway, bottom line is that I’m eating healthier, starting to work out, enforcing some positive habits in my life and I’ve got you to thank for a big part of that. I even started a website (www.davidvanzyl.com) to keep me accountable.

Thanks again and keep on rocking it.

Sincerely,
Dave


Pompae A. — July 5th, 2012, 3:25 pm

Hello, I just started Scd and have lost 4.5lbs in four days! Thanks Tim. I’m a recovering sugar addict and I’ve had a hard time with the removal of sugar from my diet. I’ve found that carrot juice successfully alleviates my cravings. This feels too good to be true! Is this a cheat or is carrot juice fine for slow carb dieters. thanks


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:44 pm

    This would be cheating, as carrot juice is just the sugar in carrots concentrated in a liquid. The trick for sugar cravings is to do a hardcore sugar detox. You’ve got to get past the sugar addiction before you can hope to be real successful with any kind of lifestyle and nutritional change.

    High fat snacks (like guacamole) can blunt the hormonal effects of sugar withdrawal.


Thomas — July 5th, 2012, 4:24 pm

Hey Tim,

I have been following you for several years now ever since my professor had us read the 4 Hour Workweek in one of my business classes. Needless to say, I loved everything I have read and continue to follow your Blog/FB.

I had a quick question, what are your thoughts on almonds while dieting? I have read mixed reviews from several different sources, some say they are terrible, some say they are great. What is your opinion? Is eating 4-5 handfuls of almonds a day going to hamper weight loss?


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:40 pm

    I’m no Tim Ferriss, but If I may venture and answer…

    I think it depends on the person. As long as you’re keeping your blood sugar levels sufficiently low, and getting enough Omega-3′s, almonds shouldn’t hurt you.

    The problems people will say are that almonds are high in calories (but calories matter very little if you’re not eating sugar or refined carbs) and that they are high in Omega-6′s. The latter is a valid argument for overall health, but not terribly important when it comes to fat loss for most people.

    Bottom line: try it. If it works for you, it works for you. If it doesn’t, it doesn’t.


Cheryl J. — July 6th, 2012, 12:12 am

Hi all,

I’ve been on the Slow-Carb/Primal/Paleo diets for almost two years and lost 37 lbs. during the first year. I really enjoyed the journey, so I thought I’d relay some suggestions to people new to the diet.

How to make beans interesting:

1. Mix cooked black beans with guacamole and pico de gallo (rather than regular, watery salsa) – the creamy coolness of the guac and the crunchy spiciness of the pico go together perfectly and the spiciness of the pico completely overpowers the blandness of the beans. Have a tall glass of cold water with the meal to rinse the spiciness of the jalapeno in the pico from your palate. I also like to mix in slices of chicken apple sausage to make an interestingly textured – but tasty – mess. ?

2. Make lentil “burgers”: grind about 1 lb. of cooked lentils in a food processor, mix in two whole raw eggs, and then season the mixture as if it were hamburger meat; some seasoning suggestions: chopped onion, onion powder, garlic powder, black pepper, lemon pepper, cumin, mustard seed, allspice, balsamic vinegar, chili powder, fennel seed, caraway seed – all added together. Then form the mixture into patties and cook in olive or macadamia oil. The patties have a texture and flavor reminiscent of egg foo young – delicious!

I also condensed the main points of the “Subtracting Fat” chapters in “4HB” onto two largish, index cards, which I carry around folded in my wallet as reminders, especially when I eat out. Here’s the content, so you can copy, paste, and print it out to make your own note cards:

Front of first card:
6-Day-a-Week Slow-Carb Diet Protocol:
Rule #1: Avoid “white” carbs (or anything that can be white) – except for cauliflower.
Rule #2: Eat the same few meals over and over again – e.g., egg whites w/ 1-2 whole eggs for flavor, chicken, tuna, turkey, salmon, lentils, black beans, spinach, mixed vegetables, cottage cheese (as a last resort).
Rule #3: Don’t drink calories.
Rule #4: Don’t eat fruit.
Rule #5: Take one day off per week and go nuts.

Back of first card:
Additional dieting advice:
- Take fish oil w/ meals at scheduled times [from Barry Sears’s Zone Diet, but still good advice nonetheless].
- Add these to meals to increase good intestinal bacteria: Japanese natto, kefir, kimchi, sauerkraut, fermented fish, unsweetened plain yogurt, kombucha tea; add cinnamon to coffee (no more than 1.5 tspn).
- Aim for 30 min. per meal and 20 chews per mouthful.
- Drink 1 cup of water w/ every snack and 2 w/ every meal.
- Use PAGG and AGG w/ meals.
– P = 20-25 mg; A = 100-300 mg; G (green tea extract) = 325 mg; G (garlic extract) = 200 mg
(- Make sure you’re consuming enough B-complex vitamins while using this.)
– Prior to breakfast: AGG
– Prior to lunch: AGG
– Prior to dinner: AGG
– Prior to bed: PAGG
- Eat 30 g of protein w/in 30 min. of waking.
- Place an ice pack on back of neck or upper trapezius area for 20-30 min. in evening, when insulin sensitivity is lowest.
- Consume at least 500 ml of ice water on an empty stomach upon waking. Eat a slow-carb breakfast 20-30 min. later.
- Take 5-10 min. cold showers before breakfast and/or before bed.
– 1-2 min.: hot water over entire body
– shampoo out of range of water
– rinse head and face in pure cold
– 1-3 min.: maintain water focused on lower neck and upper back; lather
– turn around and rinse normally :/

Front of second card:
Binge Day Protocol:
- Weigh yourself before your first cheat day and ignore short-term fluctuations.
- Don’t eat a binge meal as the first meal of the day; make it high in protein (at least 30 g).
- Consume a small quantity of fructose in grapefruit juice and caffeinated coffee just before the 2nd meal (the 1st binge meal).
- Use AGG and PAGG to increase insulin sensitivity (see back of first card).
- Consume citric juices: lime juice in water, lemon juice on food, or citrus kombucha.
- Consume 100-200 mlg of caffeine, 16 oz. of cooled yerba mate, or “Athletic Greens” at the most crap-laden meals.
- Do 60-90 secs. of exercise a few min. before eating and again about 90 min. afterward:
– air squats
– wall presses
– chest pulls w/ elastic band

Good luck to all you slow-carbers out there!

~Cheryl


    J. Roto — July 6th, 2012, 4:08 am

    Holy shit, Cheryl! YOU are awesome…thanks!


        Cheryl J. — July 6th, 2012, 11:18 pm

        Thanks!


Fabio — July 6th, 2012, 4:31 am

Can Someone help me out please!!??
I’m new to the SCD and I work out early in the morning and I hate working out on a full stomach. So I do take a glass of isolate whey protein before the gym to keep up with the “eat 30 min. after waking” rule.
Is this OK?
Should I work out on empty stomach and just eat my proteins after the gym?
Help Please!!
Thank you !!!!


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:32 pm

    Some may argue, but working out on an empty stomach is fine. If I workout early, its before I eat. Personally, I think the benefit of the “eat 30 mins upon waking” rule is more psychologically beneficial than physiologically useful.

    Ultimately, as you start changing your life, you need to begin to learn your body and really listen to it. If you need to workout early and you need to do it on an empty stomach, go for it!


Sean — July 6th, 2012, 8:49 am

Hey Tim, I have another question.

Is it usual to drop a ton of weight in the first week? I’ve already lost almost 13 pounds. I know most of it is water weight, but still, want to make sure I’m not screwing up something.


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:26 pm

    That’s normal Sean – I dropped 14 lbs. first week. A lot of it IS water weight, but that’s just as good. Dropping the water weight means your body is changing in the right way. Keep it up!


Colin Kingston — July 6th, 2012, 10:29 am

Thank you for the diet info, Tim.
I am a Type II Diabetic. This diet includes protein in every meal, something I need.

I just bought the food items I need to start my first week. The total was $25 less than my usual food bill. This will save me $100 month – even more motivation to stay on the diet.

Thanks again,
Colin Kingston


    Graham — July 6th, 2012, 6:18 pm

    Get going on this and you won’t be a type II diabetic for long! Diabetes, and just about all the “western diseases” are completely curable with nutrition and exercise.

    Good Luck!


        Colin Kingston — July 29th, 2012, 12:53 pm

        Thank you for the encouragement, Graham. I’ve made some minor adjustments and am doing well.

        The hardest part for me is giving up fruit. However, knowing I can eat all I want on my cheat day really helps me stay on track.


Meredith — July 6th, 2012, 11:54 am

Any ideas of what I could do with lentils to make them more interesting? I am SO not a cook, and bought a case of organic canned lentils — and there they sit. I need something easy or I know I won’t do it.

Also, I’m interested in hooking up with people over 60 who are doing SCD. Not meaning to exclude ANYBODY, but at this age, it’s more crucial than EVER to get in shape AND we need to be more careful exercising.

Also — any suggestions on “first” kettelbell weight for a women? Do I dare stand around a sports department swinging them willy-nilly until I find the one that feels best? I’ll be the short chubby woman… Bring your camera…

Meredith


    Janet — July 11th, 2012, 4:23 am

    Meredith,
    I’m 58. Will that do? I’ve been doing Tim Ferriss’ diet since late May. So far I’ve lost 14 pounds. You are SO RIGHT about women our age and exercise (not to mention the hormones!) and being careful. I ran out and bought a 20 pounder. Then I went to Home Depot and got the component and weights for either a 10 or 15 pound T bell. I am just now beginning to do the kettle bells.


Jeremy Taylor — July 6th, 2012, 2:38 pm

Hi Tim,
I have two reasons for writing. First to say thank you for the wonderful book. I read it and started the SCD about a year and a half ago and it has changed my life. I started out at 310 pounds and within 10 months I lost 115 pounds. I now have more energy than I ever did and my knee (5 surgeries) and back problems that have plagued me my whole life are all but gone. I started running for the first time in my life and have really enjoyed it, so much so, that I have decided to train for a triathlon. In doing some research into what to do and not to do, I have developed some concerns over the suggested diet for triathletes, which brings me to my second question. Most resources I’ve consulted suggest I should have a diet consisting of a 3:1 ratio of carbs to protein. Now this goes against everything I have done so religiously on your program over that last year and a half, so I am turning to you for some advice as to what I should do. I know I need carbs to keep me going, but I’m not sure how to approach it. I can’t stomach the pasta anymore, and rice doesn’t do well with me either (2 of the main things they suggest you should eat). Any advice or diet suggestions on your part would be greatly appreciated. Thanks again.


Sean — July 6th, 2012, 8:20 pm

Cool, thanks Graham. It’s now up to almost 18 pounds since Monday.

Now I have to figure out how to get my energy levels back up, I’ve been doing backloading, and I never had any problem going 0 carbs, but now with the lentils and things I just feel like I am either dying or dragging my ass.

I went to do my sprints today and simply couldn’t, it was embarrassing. I got one time, then the others I just had no energy.


Thailand Property — July 7th, 2012, 11:49 pm

WOW!
That was some amazing photos and stories there!


Lars Riis — July 8th, 2012, 3:48 am

Inspiring post and comments.
I’m a big fan of the 4hww and 4hb. The past 12 months I have been doing a lot of testing and tweaking of my learnings from the books. Tomorrow I am starting a 60-day challenge to see how much I can improve my body, my productivity, my learning and general well-being.
Not only has the books and this blog given me the tools to improve my life, it has also given me a desire to be an inspiration to others. It has basically turned me into a guinea-pig!!! Looking forward to see where I will be in 60 days.


suhail tufail — July 8th, 2012, 7:54 am

It is very important article. Heavy weight is so harmful for our health. But we need control this naturally. So It is very helpful for all.


Jesse Darnell — July 8th, 2012, 10:24 am

The results of this type of diet program are remarkable. Although, I believe the biggest problem people have with this type of program is actually sticking to it. I think there has to be a genuine change of attitude towards yourself before you have the willpower to stick it out.

I’ve never been very large, but I highly advocate fitness and emphasis on health as part of people’s lives. It’s also very easy to be a thin and slender person who’s out of shape, has no stamina or endurance, etc…

Thank you for this great article! As I can see from the above comments, it’s already helped a lot of people!


Olivia — July 8th, 2012, 2:55 pm

Tim,
I am and eighteen year old soon to be college freshman. I have followed your SCD before with great success, but after living on my own for the first time and traveling often I have been unable to keep up with the demands of the diet. I want to start over again, but am afraid that being on a student budget not to mention the meal plan will make it too difficult. How do you stick to the diet either while traveling or contending with cereal, pizza parties, and sandwiches in college especially without a kitchen? Thanks for any help you can give me.


Cindy Buck — July 8th, 2012, 5:03 pm

july8 2012… started with atkins… read about ketogenic cycling… found tim ferriss….aaaaah.. am home. tim, your work is deeply appreciated and i feel the generosity of your spirit in everything you write.

started journal today and am photographing all food intake – that’s a stroke of genius for accountability and consciousness. photo’d self in all my 247 pound glory – my 5’4″ frame really only needs 130 or so pounds so 110# to come off in 20# increments.

downloaded the book 4 hour body. brilliant. set up my chair and umbrella at the beach yesterday and mapped out the plan. now am working the plan. life is good. tim farriss shared his work and commitment and i get to benefit. i hope i can give back in spirit and results. sincere thanks CindyB


Lyndsay U — July 8th, 2012, 7:30 pm

Hi Tim! Thank you for sharing these stories. I would really like to read more about MP and exactly what she did, how she followed the diet, anything special she did, and how she exercised. She looks amazing and her before photo looks a lot like mine! I just started a few weeks ago and am seeing great results, however I have a hard time getting focused again after a cheat day. I force myself to eat crap on Saturdays even if I don’t particularly want to, but then by Sunday I have major carb cravings and have a hard time snapping out of that. I’m thinking of doing away with the cheat day and only bingeing after every ten pounds lost, but open to suggestions. I’d like to lose about 30-40 lbs and definitely have some toning to do.


Julie — July 8th, 2012, 10:48 pm

Hi Tim,

I moved to New-York a month ago. I’ve regularly been trying to get on this best diet imo. I get crazy about pastry here so staying consistent 6 days in a row takes time for me. This Sunday went well, so I’ll see, maybe this week will be my week one.
Anyhow! I wanted to say that two days before you posted this, I went to this corner store two blocks away from where tons of big stores are. I bought a huge can of black beans and a bag of lentils. The shelves looked NORMAL.
After you posted this, I again went to this tiny corner store on Tuesday, there were NO lentils and one or two cans of black beans left. The shelves where this two items were were empty. The rest of the produce was fully stocked. I thought wow. Cool! That means when I say “not today, I’m on the lowcarb”, I’ll be understood. This is popular.


Rus — July 9th, 2012, 8:07 pm

Hey Tim,

I am a big fan, but I’ll get straight to the 3 questions I have:
*I’ve looked everywhere on your website for posts and comments regarding my questions, but can’t find the answers.

1. Why are you not following CKD? As far as I’ve read and researched up to this point, I understand that a ketogenic diet would be even more effective at inducing fat loss, because both, ketogenic diet and SCD work by decreasing insulin (I know there are other factors involved, but insulin is primary).
So again, my question- why not CKD?

2. Reason why I am concerned about this question, is because I am more comfortable with a ketogenic diet (with no dairy or fruits) than eating beans or legumes. BUT, I am concerned that if I keep binging weekly and then entering ketosis, I would constantly be in a state of “induction into ketosis” which isn’t a particularly joyful state. That is why I contemplated that maybe you follow SCD because you never truly restrict carbs and your brain still relies on glucose, as opposed to ketone bodies when one is on ketosis, so binge day or not, there are no shifts in the energy the brain uses. So here is my question: Would my body get used to the weekly binges and ketosis, and I will feel fine? Or am I going to constantly feel fatigued, etc?

3. Reading about CKD, I feel it’s too structured. My CKD is 6 days a week ketogenic diet (no dairy & no fruits, & protein is 100 grams) and one day binge day with the implementation of ALL of the techniques you provide for “minimizing the damage”. Is this effective?

I have my own thoughts about the questions I pose, but would love to get your perspective.
In any case (a frase I started using after watching your interviews and speeches so much-so you can get an idea of how much of a fan I am) I am going to test my diet to find out the answers to my questions, if you don’t get around to answering my comment.


Sean — July 9th, 2012, 11:48 pm

@Rus, CKD people tend to do 2 (or more) weeks of fully keto diet before starting to introduce binges, and even then it’s not a day, it’s a meal. How much do you weigh? You should probably eat your LBM in protein.


    Rus — July 10th, 2012, 12:05 am

    Sean,
    As far as I know, CKD people “carb up” for a day and a half, not just a meal. Where did you hear that its only a meal?
    However, the difference is that the day and a half on CKD is very structured in terms of what to eat- no freedom, which is what I don’t like.

    I’ve read a couple of books on ketosis, and the reason why I eat 100g (no matter ones weight) of protein is because past that threshold protein starts overstimulating insulin and therefore takes me out of ketosis.


Joe — July 10th, 2012, 7:00 am

Wow! Great to see such amazing results. For the most part, most people are over doing it on carbs be it sweets, grains, fruits and vegetables. Since most white skinned people are “protien types” when it comes to their metabolic type (which means eating right for your genetic and ethnic background), most will do well on a “low or slow carb diet.” But not everyone!

Our needs for foods can change from day to day, or meal to meal. This all depends on what types of stress our bodies are under. This can be physical, mental, thermal, emotional and even spiritual.

In short, there is one ideal diet/meal for anyone and there will never be. Thats why ALL diet books are a waste of money and shelf space. We just need to get in touch with our bodies (which can take a long time for some people if they have poor health and/or issues with food).

Joe


Sean — July 10th, 2012, 7:57 am

Ah, I didn’t know that. I’m basing this off of bodybuilder friends telling me about it, so I’m having to go off what they do.


Dale — July 10th, 2012, 9:01 am

OK, I am impressed with people’s results. Question: does the SCD make you “fuzzy-headed”? The brain works off of simple carbs, & I’ve tried other diets where I reduced my sugar intake drastically, & as a result, ended up with my brain “not quite there”, & not functioning right. Upon eating some sugar in one form or another, within 15 minutes to 1/2 hour, I felt better & the fog cleared away. Anyone else experience this?


    Farid — July 16th, 2012, 10:29 am

    Personal experience: I do get fuzzy-headed when I’m not drinking enough water.


Lisa Houde — July 10th, 2012, 11:52 am

I was tearful reading the story of Ricardo and seeing the images of those you posted on your June 24th blog…because I’ve struggled with weight since I was in my early 20′s. I’m 5′ 3/4″ and recently gained quite a bit after entering an online graduate program (too much sedentary work) and then having surgery in December, 2011. I was nearing 170 lbs on my short body. My arms, stomach, and thighs looked suddenly huge.

My friend, who has done some really crazy stuff with dieting in the past, talked me into getting your book. I was sold immediately by your great writing and solid eating and exercise plans. We set up our own wikispaces site to track our progress and encourage each other, and have faithfully updated it every single day.

I’m happy to report that I’ve gone from 167 to 152.2 lbs, and have lost 13 inches total – I’m on day #50 and have followed your advice to the letter of the law with ice water, sauerkraut, food, and my “Ferriss exercise routine”, etc., but it’s the change in my musculature that has me amazed. LOVE the kettlebell swing and other posterior chain exercises; also love the beans, veggies, and chicken – they’re like my best friends now! I have no digestive issues whatsoever where before I had frequent heartburn and other problems. I love the Saturday cheat day routine when my friend and I have a food fest, but like others, find myself longing for my beans and chicken even as I scarf down a delicious pastry. When others ask how long I’ll do this, it’s a no-brainer for me to respond – “forever!” This way of life fits me like a hand to glove, like it was made just for me. By the way, I just turned 49, and am nearing being in the best shape of my life – even after doing sprint triathlons a few years ago, and a few 75 mile bike races. I’ve never been stronger, healthier, or nearly as energetic. THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU Tim! I’m a Ferriss disciple, and even call my copy of the 4HB “the bible.” Truly, I feel as though I have my life back and am excited to continue with my great progress – and to wearing a size 8…possibly a 6, and that’s coming soon! I have set my sights on your superhuman chapters and achieving even further athletic goals. Yeeeeee Haaaaaaaaaa!


Ryka — July 10th, 2012, 4:55 pm

Hi,

I am a 22 year old female and my goal is to become really fit and keep on living that way! Today marks the end of the second time I go through 1 week of slow carbing. The first time I got discouraged after not losing weight and quit. This time though, I decided to give it a 30 day trial. Yesterday I had my first cheat day and followed the book with the PAGG, exercises, yerba mate, etc. I haven’t stepped on the scale yet because I want to wait 48 hours as Tim mentions in the book. I have to admit I am nervous. I don’t have very much weight to lose (maybe about 15-20 pounds to get really fit), but I have been dieting on and off for a long time and I hope this time I will be able to lose the excess weight and just stay with this new mode of life afterwards.

I just hope this works because I really don’t know what I have been doing wrong otherwise. Could any one give me a list of what vegetables to avoid specifically because other than that, I don’t know what I could be doing wrong.

Thank you all!


Damon Salvatore — July 10th, 2012, 11:12 pm

Hey guys, It is nice to see this kind of article for those who want to reduce carbs in their body and also for those people are health conscious. This article can help millions of people when they read it, I know that there some people that worrying about there health physically. Now it is the time to read and start to loose pounds for a healthy lifestyle. Come on, who would like to have different kinds of diseases when they reached their old age? It is the time for people to change their lifestyle to become healthy and fit. Kuddos to the writer and thumbs up for this article.


ahlia — July 10th, 2012, 11:17 pm

I was so amazed with those “before and after” pictures you posted. Its unbelievable! That is very nice of you to share and inspire people like me to start thinking about getting healthy. After giving birth, I’ve been wanting to lose weight but never got the chance to start it because my being a mother, doesn’t give me any spare time to do even a 30minute workout. So, having to know about this SCB is really perfect! thank you for this and I look forward to getting healthier for my angel…


Loren — July 10th, 2012, 11:17 pm

I have actually been trying to lose weight in years. Ha. I’ve lost some when I was away from home where every morning would go out for a run and almost every other Sunday would join a 5K race. But when I moved back, I have gained back all the lost weight because of course, everyone likes home cooked meals right? Recently, I have decided to get back on running so that I could lose some weight. But I guess you also have to have that balanced diet. I was sort of sad reading Rule #1 of the SCD because I eat it everyday. If you live in the Philippines, everyone eats rice at least three times a day. Seeing these people lose so much makes me strive more on my goal. I think…no, I will go ahead and try to do this. The results that people have on here makes it very exciting for me!


Alison — July 11th, 2012, 5:40 am

Wow, this is some post – comments are still going strong!

I commented upthread about experiencing migraines and lightheadedness the first time I tried the SCD. Spurred on by the helpful comments on this post, I decided to go back and read the book again – and decided that maybe my problem was 1) not eating enough, and 2) not supplementing. So, I decided to try again. This time, I’m eating ungodly quantities of beans, and also taking a magnesium/calcium/zinc supplement and using salt substitute on everything.

My first day was last Sunday, and no headaches yet. Also – I started at a little over 244 pounds, and am down to around 238 as of this morning. Mostly water weight, probably, but encouraging nonetheless. Here’s hoping for continued progress.


    Farid — July 15th, 2012, 3:37 am

    Make sure you are well-hydrated too.


Elena — July 11th, 2012, 8:13 am

Hi Tim,

I live in Croatia and I just heard about you and your book (4 hour body) on TV last week so i googled you to find out more. Then I got your book in english (but yesterday I saw it in a bookstore in my language too :) )and decided to try your slow carb diet. I was first very suprised when I read that fruit isn’t allowed, because I’ve been hearing all my life how I should eat enough fruit..but what got me interested is that you already did all the testing so I thought – well, if he isn’t dead by now, i guess I could also try and step out of the box. So I started SCD 2 days ago (Monday, july 9th) and for now I feel pretty good, but I do have a question:

Do I HAVE TO use any supplements? …because I really don’t have a lot of money, I earn very little but I’m happy to have at least that, since there’s a lot of people who are losing their jobs in my country right now… that’s also why I’m concerned if I’ll be able to afford this SCD as I already see that I didn’t buy enough protein for this week and I already spent a lot… when I calculated everything as it should be (enough protein, legumes and vegetables), I would have to spend a little bit more that 1/4 (or maybe even more) of my total monthly income just on food…and I still didn’t buy kettlebell and dumbbells(I have a pair, but they’re not heavy enough)..untill I buy that I filled my old backpack with packs of sugar so I could use it as a kettlebell :) but that can’t be my permanent solution, something’s gonna brake sooner or later :)

also…CONGRATULATIONS to everyone here who lost weight and/or bodyfat! :) I hope I’ll be one of you :)
btw.I am also trying to get my mom to try SCD with me, since she has elevated sugar level..


    Elena — July 12th, 2012, 3:03 pm

    …ok, so I just found Tim’s post where he explains supplements thing…my bad.. :( I didn’t see it before.. still, should I be just fine even if I don’t take magnesium and potassium? Does anyone know?
    ..these last 3-4 days since I’ve began with SCD I’ve been eating spinach, broccoli, cauliflower, peas, green beans, carrots,a little bit of corn, tomato here and there, cabbage, cucumbers, black beans, lentils, cottage cheese (every day but in small doses), eggs, chicken breasts, flaxseed oil, few drops of lemon juice with spinach, coffee (no milk or sugar – of course), garlic and drank lots of water..I also drink 0,5l of cold water first thing in the morning and before bed, take cold showers and do that ice bag thing under my neck before sleep for 30min.. I’m starting with my training next week.
    ..I usually hate cold and first time I took that cold shower I was like – I’m gonna kill that guy :) but I’m still doing that :) I hope it’s gonna get better with time, cause now I’m sneezing all time :) other than that, I feel just fine – after I eat I’m not hungry for at least 4 hours, and I can’t remember that ever happening before…I was on different kind of diets before and I did wait for 4 hours before next meal, but I would usually get hungry before that…so this SCD is great… also, I’m not one of those who measure every week, I do it after 4 weeks, cause then I can see actual results.. I don’t have a lot of fat that I want to loose, so I know that usually goes slower..few years ago it took me around 6months to lose those last few cm (different kind of diet, not this one)..I’ve been losing 2cm monthly and then last two months it was only 1cm, but it got me where I wanted to be , so I don’t mind waiting actually, as long as it works.. :) I’ve learned to be patient..
    ..also..I’m not trying to have least bodyfat I can…I just want it down to % that makes me feel good when I look at myself in the mirror.. and I like working out, so I hope Tim’s advices will also help me to do that part better…I’ve been guiltly in the past for overdoing my workout…now that I think of it, that’s probably why my last diet program didn’t work anymore after I’ve lost 15kg..
    ..wow..I sure talk a lot…sorry everyone..
    ..and thanks for writing this book, Tim..:) I like your writting…it got me laughing number of times..


    Farid — July 15th, 2012, 3:35 am

    Hi Elena,

    You don’t need supplements for this diet to work. However, Tim suggests potassium, magnesium and calcium if you’re not absorbing enough. See The Slow-Carb Diet II for more.

    Also, focus on the diet first. Kettlebell can come in later.

    Best,
    Farid


        Elena — July 16th, 2012, 11:20 am

        Thanx, Farid :)


eddy — July 11th, 2012, 7:33 pm

Tim
First off your a rock star. The 4HWW changed my life. Not that it sucked prior just that it gave me new perspective. It led me to develop a 6Mil company that I work on for less then 4 hours a week. Having so much free time I spent time in the gym with a trainer saw some results in strength gain but couldn’t loose the gut. So i just began the SCD with my wife (2 weeks) she hasn’t really lost any weight (not really over weight, but can lose a couple…honey if you read this…I love u…;) but lets call a spade a spade. Anyway, I too have only lost a few pounds and we are strict about the diet part. We are not dosing with any supplements though could this be the reason why?
We are kettle belling together and doing what you suggest but no dramatic results…Any suggestions?


    Farid — July 18th, 2012, 4:51 am

    Eddy,

    Are you taking your TI and BF measurements?


Josh — July 11th, 2012, 8:41 pm

Hey Tim,
Last year I gained 22 pounds from being at a caloric surplus and lifting weights to build muscle. In January 2012 I said to myself that I wanted to lose weight and cut up a bit. So I’ve been on the slow carb diet from the book and to date I’ve lost 45 pounds. I’m 23 years old, weighting about 179 now and Im 6’2. But ive maintained a lot of mscle still. I’ve felt great the last few months. But this past I’ve hit a plateau. Barely losing anything prior to cheat day. Its like im maintaining bu I’ve been doing what the diet says,I haven’t changed it a bit. I know you say that the scale is your worst enemy, to just go by measurements. But everyone in the world has that urge to just weight themselves just to actually see the results right in front of you. And due to this, my emotions have gone down also with my lack of motivation, low energy and me being obsessed with hitting that 50 pound lost mark just for a personal preference, even though right now I get a lot of people saying that I’ve lost too much weight and that I look sick. All that stuff hit me most today. All day today I was sticking to protocol. I came home from work, took a nap because I felt exhausted from the day for no reason, and After the nap i broke the rules having a foot long whole wheat chicken breast sub with only avocado and chicken breast in it. Then I had a couple of fruits like half of a banana and a few strawberries. I felt like I needed that. But I also felt like I’ve destroyed the whole week of dieting by not waiting 2 1/2 more days to have it on my cheat day. I think some of my problems is that I’m overtraining also, lack of sleep too. But may I have someone’s feed back on this, what can I do to break the plateau? do I have symptoms of Body dysmorphic disorder? ANY advice would be deeply appreciated. Thank you everyone!


Sean — July 11th, 2012, 11:07 pm

@Josh: If people are saying you look sick, then you need to stop. The sleep bit is from not getting enough calories in to support your body: 172 at 6’2 is pretty thin. Don’t beat yourself to death trying to reach some mythical 50 lb loss, friend. You need to get your body fat checked, see where you’re at. I’m guessing you’re probably sub 8%, don’t kill yourself trying to get lower.


Aimee — July 12th, 2012, 10:40 pm

I have lacked the discipline to stick with the SCD for more than 2 weeks at a time. However, I can vouch that the original version (I have NOT read 4HB yet) did work for me, 8-10 pounds each time. I am female, northern European origin, mid-20s.

I didn’t have problems with fatigue, fuzziness, etc the first time I tried it, but I did all of the remaining times. The difference? The first time I took apple cider vinegar every day because it helped a friend’s weightloss. A couple other posters have mentioned ACV, and there may be something to that.


    Sean — July 13th, 2012, 8:23 pm

    Hey Aimee, how much AVC did you take? I’m pretty interested in that!


        Aimee — July 24th, 2012, 8:30 pm

        The consensus of several health food blogs seemed to be up to 2 tablespoons three times a day, and that a person should start at a much lower amount and work up to it. One commenter recommended mixing it with baking soda so it wouldn’t be as hard on one’s teeth. I would recommend looking it up again; it’s been a while since I did.


Luke — July 13th, 2012, 10:24 am

Didn’t have much luck with the SCD unfortunately – followed it to the letter, eggs, beans & spinach for breakfast, burrito bowl for lunch, chicken/beans/mixed vegetables for dinner, plus a cheat day, for 3 weeks. Here’s my net results:

6/22/2012 Lbs: 180 TI: 146.15
6/29/2012 Lbs: 176.8 TI: 142.45
7/6/2012 Lbs: 175.2 TI: 143.7
7/13/2012 Lbs: 176.2 TI: 143.85

Only thing I could think of while reviewing the “mistakes” is hydration; so in the last 1.5 weeks I made sure to drink at least 2 liters / day.

So oh well. I’m a little frustrated given the hype and allegedly universal results from those who have followed this diet to the letter. Guess I’m the other 1% :).


    SR — July 13th, 2012, 5:02 pm

    Add yourself to my “loser “list.
    Given the spectacular results of the “winners”
    you would have thought the rest of us would at least have lost a little bit more than you and I have. I cut out dairy, but I am beginning to think that the cheat day is gonna just be some extra fruit. No bakery items, no ice cream, no pasta.


        Dusty — July 14th, 2012, 8:40 pm

        Tim, :)
        I scanned through the stories above and I wanted to congratulate you.
        You’ve done allot of great things for others as well as yourself and you deserve it. Some of these success stories are beyond what I expected your book and yourself to do for others. People are really making some major changes in their lives thanks to you. It has to feel good. You’ve done great Tim. Keep looking forward and take care.


    Farid — July 15th, 2012, 12:17 am

    Luke, I would suggest that you add a third meal (2nd lunch) to your schedule and measure your bodyfat percentage as well. Continue for two more weeks and compare the results (esp. because you have added in water recently)


        Luke — July 16th, 2012, 9:47 am

        Thanks Farid (Tim’s virtual assistant? :). Might give the diet another go in the future and try 4 meals like you’re suggesting. Maybe try to limit my portions (was a little confused about that aspect of the diet – most of the advice in the book says don’t worry about portions, but there are warnings about avoiding domino foods, managing your appetite with a protein breakfast etc. which imply that portions matter).


Sueblimely — July 15th, 2012, 4:37 pm

I had not heard of this particular diet when I was diagnosed with Diabetes Type II a couple of years ago but I followed something similar – the Low GI diet. This is what is being recommended by the medical profession in Australia and we have a range of foods with a Low Gi seal of approval displayed. I lost all the weight I needed to at a rate of 4-8lbs a week. Slow burning carbs combined with low fat, lots of fresh veg and smaller more regular meals did the trick for me. I am now managing my diabetes without drugs or insulin. If I had known about this when I only had pre-diabetes I could have staved it off altogether.


Farid — July 16th, 2012, 10:25 am

Just eat enough that keeps you full for 3-4 hours. You’re not supposed to starve on this diet at all. If you want to count anything, count the amount of protein your’re consuming (at least 30 g per meal)


Chris C. — July 17th, 2012, 9:11 am

Hi Tim,

I am a 61 year old male. I started the SCD this past may at 210. Now 180 but been stuck there for a few weeks.

Added 30g of Gold Standard Whey protein (three weeks ago) immediately after waking followed with my daily 3 eggs + egg whites, garlic, onion, spinach and black bean omelet with non-sweetened salsa. I have one or two cups of Green Tea with cinnamon each morning and take Potassium, Magnesium and Calcium supplements each day.

Lunch is usually a bowl of lentil soup and dinner either chicken, turkey, pork or steak with spinach salad which includes black beans and hard boiled eggs.

I do kettlebell swings (4×25 16KG) Mon, Wed & Fri and walk a little over a mile every morning.

My cheat day is Saturday and I usually gain 2-4 pounds which take maybe 4 days to loose.

This past Friday I introduced the pAGG stack. I have seen no change yet but wondered how long before that may kick in and how long should I stay on it. I only bought a month’s worth as it is a bit cost prohibitive.

I feel confident that I am doing things correctly but the weight loss has really slowed to next to nothing and there is still belly fat to loose.

I am about to introduce the BOSU ball exercise you note in the book.

I have also increased my water intake each day.

Can you see where I am doing anything improperly or have any suggestions?

Thanks,

Chris


    Farid — July 18th, 2012, 4:43 am

    Chris,

    How is your bodyfat percentage changed? Scale is deceptive. Since you are also doing kettlebell swings, you might have added some muscle and lost the same amount of fat. So, the number on the scale hasn’t changed.


        Chris C. — July 18th, 2012, 8:20 am

        Thanks for the response. I just started this diet without taking measurements and just use my scale. I realize that is not real reliable but I thought if I used the same scale, the change would still be evident. To your question, I have no idea.


        Farid — July 18th, 2012, 9:57 am

        @Chris C,

        Not too late. Get your circumference measurements (arms, waist, hips and legs) right now and later your bodyfat percentage.


            Chris C. — July 19th, 2012, 10:38 am

            Thanks again. Well, I have swapped the black beans out for lentils in the morning omelet and I have ordered calipers. Measurements will start next week.

            Regarding the pAGG stack; can you tell me how long one would remain on this and what result should I be seeing if any?

            Thanks.

Cindy Buck — July 17th, 2012, 1:17 pm

are we eating quinoa on this plan? thanks ev eryone, cindy


    Farid — July 18th, 2012, 4:32 am

    No


Luke — July 17th, 2012, 2:28 pm

Tim,

I have trouble eating the beans in the morning? I usually only have a few minutes to scarf down 3 hardboiled eggs and black beans. I end up being extremely bloated. I’ve tried beano and it doesn’t seem to work. Is there anything I can replace beans with?


    Farid — July 18th, 2012, 4:37 am

    Luke,

    Lentils are preferred to beans for breakfast. Add spinach and eggs and eat within 30 min of waking up and you’ll have a perfect breakfast.


Andrew Anderson — July 18th, 2012, 6:54 am

If you have any doubts about this, it really does work period. I have also recently added whole bean green coffee to my regime and that helps too. If you do this, do not use green coffee extracts. They do not work as well.

The only thing that I suggest, is do not eat wheat on your off days. I was doing this and it messed me up. I finally figured out why after reading Dr. Wilson Davis’s regime. wheatbellyblog.com It made a big difference.

Anyway, the slow-carb diet works. :)


Mahindra — July 19th, 2012, 7:53 pm

you got me at “don’t eat fruits”.

It’s my go getter when I feel hungry during the day.

Is there a book on this that maps out a 30-day meal plan?


margaret — July 20th, 2012, 8:17 am

I was introduced to your page by HIGH SPEED HEALTH owner, Todd Bowen.
It is a fantastic site. Having taught health and physical education and coached for 30 years I have been immersed in health, activities and training for a whole lifetime it seems. You put forth the same ideals that I have always promoted. I especially love the take a day off and go wild part.
Thanks for promoting good health.
Hold fast,
Margaret


Rodrigo — July 20th, 2012, 11:15 pm

Guys, I’m having problems with this diet because I feel without energy! Does anyone have any idea why?


    Farid — July 29th, 2012, 2:39 pm

    Eat more legumes, drink more water and consume enough potassium, calcium and magnesium-rich foods (or tablets)


Artur Krol — July 22nd, 2012, 10:53 am

Not much effect with the diet – both me and two other people I know lost a little weight (far less than advertised in the book) during our month on the diet, but then easily regained the loss after switching to previous diet (on which we were, and are, stable in weight). At the same time, the diet was incredibly tedious to follow – yes, on a normal diet we recycle the same meals regularly, but with the SCD it seemed like we were literally eating the same food (legumes) with each and every meal. What fat loss there was seemed to be more an effect of not eating (yes, you can eat whatever you want besides the forbidden foods, it’s just that it becomes so tedious it’s actually easier to go a bit hungry than to eat the same things again). When you add the fact that it was an extremely expensive diet, I have to say all of us were rather dissapointed.

I do have a suspicion that the diet might be more effective in the US, where mexican style food is much easier to get and prepare and far more affordable than over here in Poland.


Eric — July 22nd, 2012, 8:36 pm

I am not someone who has to lose weight. I normally run at about 160 or so and stand about 5’10″. I am athletic and fit. I have been following most of the SCD guidelines for a while now and am up 10lbs to about 175lbs. I usually have a hard time gaining weight (muscle mass), however with the lack of carbs and higher protein it really seems to help.

Additionally, regardless of your moral position on hunting, I get the majority of my protein via venison. It is about the best source of organic, grass fed, low fat red meat out there. This is a great diet for anyone who hunts.

I don’t follow the SCD letter for letter, but it seems like a great path for anyone who wants to maintain a healthy diet or drop weight.


Kris — July 24th, 2012, 1:24 pm

Hi Tim! Just wanted to pay my respect for the 4-h-b. I’ve never read a book with more useful tips + hints before! I used to be the tall and skinny guy, could eat what I want, did a lot of sports until I stopped about ten years ago due to job and family. The first five years were no problem but then the “all-you-can-eat”-buffets were starting to show. Just my belly grew, the rest stayed nearly the same. One day I had to buy new trousers for office and in the shop my usual 34/36 just didn’t fit anymore. I had started with 30/36 when I was 18 and now I had 36/36 – the first time in my life I was as broad as high! That was the first shock. Then two days later I was sittin’ topless (I’m a man so don’t get excited ;-)) at the breakfast table when my five-year-old said: “Daddy you’ve got a big belly”. Who? Me? That was the moment I knew I had to take action before I finally become the tall and fat one. No time for the gym or sthg like that so I needed a different solution. I began to search for inspiration in the local bookstore and came across the 4-h-b! Liked the idea and bought it. I started with the easy part. A cool-pack a day. Lemon and cinnamon. Then I added the secret squats on the toilet before meals. I reduced carbs step by step. No bread for breakfast, no Pizza. Ate tons of beans and eggs. Reduced carbs even more. Vommiting cat and kettlebell swing. Short and intense workouts. Now my new pants are far too big. I’m back on 33/36 (fitting loose). Belly fat gone. 2 months ago I took it to the next level. No more sweets during the week (goodbye my last eating-sin), just on cheat day. The journey is continuing… Thanks Tim! And I’m really looking forward to your new book!


Nyce — July 24th, 2012, 8:30 pm

Tim,

Your article was good and a true success, I congratulate you for that. I am happy that you dealt with the difference of having a proper diet and exercise. Food diet is for body trimming and Exercises is for body firming. Work – outs will have you craving for more food because your muscles need something to burn up. I’m not saying that going to the gym is not good but take it one step at a time. You could start a diet regimen first and firm those muscles after. Before you start any regimen, you should have motivation in doing it. It takes long to see results but the reward is worth it.


Roxanne Cania — July 25th, 2012, 1:23 am

Thank you for sharing these successful stories. the before and after photos are really amazing! I have always been a diet fanatic. I tried atkins, southbeach as well as protein diet but they didn’t work for me :(

Let me try this SCD plus walking. I hope it’ll work for me. Are there any fruit/vegetable list for me to avoid? How about pasta? thanks!


Jessica — July 25th, 2012, 1:48 am

Stories from successful people are great ways to motivate others. Honestly, I also wanted to be fit and blogs like this keep people’s will burning, to really get the body they want. And the inspiring stories and tips are truly effective to stimulate other people!


big guy — July 25th, 2012, 7:36 pm

is there anything for pure vegitarians,don’t like eggs


iris — July 25th, 2012, 9:28 pm

I actually have a cousin who is very fat. I would definitely recommend this diet plan to him!. It actually takes time to accomplish this but it is worth the wait!.
Thanks for this!


Phoebe — July 25th, 2012, 11:56 pm

This is awesome! The photos proved the big difference when they try the Slow-Carb-Diet, it makes me want to try it now. I’ll leave a comment after a week if I see any changes in my body after trying this. Thanks for sharing~


Arash — July 27th, 2012, 12:30 pm

I’m lighter, thinner, healthier, stronger and look better. That’s the easy, obvious part.

The best part of doing SCD for the past year, however, is that it has lowered my anxiety.

I grew up having a very bad relationship with food. Lots of guilt and shame issues. I now get to enjoy the foods that I love without all the guilt and shame that I’d always mistakenly thought was totally normal. I didn’t even know it was possible to just relax and have a beer. At one point I’d even developed a personal mantra: “God has decided that I’m not allowed to enjoy food; accept it.”

Now, I feel a boost of confidence from being disciplined throughout the week and my Sundays have become the envy and entertainment of my friends and family.


Chris C. — July 27th, 2012, 12:59 pm

Which pAGG stack all-in-one is the best or nearest the amounts Tim specifies in 4HB? There are several on the market and they vary in potency. Also, how long does one stay on the pAGG stack?


Csaba — July 28th, 2012, 3:49 pm

Hi Tim,

your books are absolute fantastic material . One question on lowcarb diet : I weight around 450lbs. have diabetes II thyroxin and HGH (,3mg/day) and TST inj prescribed by docs (as my levels are near 0). They are telling me eat more, and eat more carbs to loose my weight.I like the low carb diet more the theirs one Should the added HGH and TST improve/impact the low carb diet and my planned achievments?


Brett — July 29th, 2012, 11:51 am

Hi Tim, that is so awesome. I live in Czech Republic and had a hard time to find the 4 Hour Body book in local bookstore in English language. So I had to order from Amazon. I can’t believe that some of the things you teach are so simple, yet I never seen anybody doing it.

I hope you will help millions of people all over the world to change their health and lifestyle. Keep up the good work and I am looking forward some new 4 Hour (???) style book.


Rod B — July 30th, 2012, 7:59 pm

Hi Tim
I am a 4HB believer, I have been following the slow carb diet for over a year now and have lost upwards of 85 lbs.. My Harajuku moment occurred a little over a year a go June 7,2011 to be exact during my weekly pickup hockey game at a local rink, making a routine maneuver I lost an edge and went down on my right knee straining the MCL and bruising the inner knee. I have had a weight problem since 8 or 9 years the day of injury I was 5’9″ 285-9 lb 51 year old male and was feeling as heavy as I ever had. My nickname in school was Chubby I was 240lb at graduation even though very active playing multiple sports even basketball.
My physical condition was not motivation enough, high blood pressure, cholesterol, heart rate and blood sugar, it was the fear of not playing my favorite sport. I hobbled in the door and announced to my wife if I was ever going to play again I would have to lose some weight, she replied she was thinking the same thing. She didn’t quite mean it that way but it really hit home at the time. Later that week she saw you on Dr.Oz talking about your book, she downloaded it on her Kindle and had it read the pertinent parts by the time
I got home that evening. Did I mention she a raving genius, registered nurse and smarter any two people I know, ok she doesn’t rave lot but the genius part is still true. She had been looking for something I could do as far as diet and that she could do with me, at the time she was in physio for an IT band injury and couldn’t do her usual fitness routine.
We stared the diet on Monday June 20,2011 preparing the pantry and following you advice for cheat day or snicker as my grand daughter calls it,
5 days in on Saturday. In three weeks I was down 17 lb. possibly more, scale was unavailable till about a week in. The weight was an estimation based on the average weekly weight loss for the next 60 lbs or so. I am currently between 203 or 204 lbs just off cheat day which is normally the only day I would weigh myself. For the first time in my life I am one the in shape guys inthe dressing room my waist is currently a comfortable 34″ down from a 42″ at start. I am quite the 4hb evangelist. Two of my sons 25 and 27 year started the diet when I was started to wear their clothes or the same size jeans, both appeared to be in top physical condition but now are exeptional with much less gym time than before.
I have followed your eating plan to the letter, my wife created a Visio document a cheat sheet as it were that I used in the beginning and have emailed it to many people. I have no weight goal just to be as healthy as I can.

Tim your book and my wife’s support I believe saved my life or at very least added several more healthy years. I was a walking time bomb for stroke or heart attack. All my vital health measurements are on the healthy side of normal now. Many of my friends and clients are using the 4HB we good results the closer they follow it the better it works. My 86 year old mother is on it with her doctors monitoring and very pleased she has lost 23 lbs since February with virtually no exercise from health and bad knees, she is a type 2 diabetic on heart meds. They have reduced her diabetes meds to less than half and cut her heart meds as well, she has not felt better in years able travel again and enjoy life.
To those who say the diet doesn’t work and your following it to the letter I would say you have never carded a honest golf game either. In the past year I have counciled many people and have if it not working they have missed something. I gain 4-6 lbs on a good cheat day. If I stretched that to 1.5 or 2 I would have lost nothing. One needs to be honest, accountable and invested, no one can do it for you follow all the rules only make small changes and don’t cheat the cheat.

Once again Tim I can’t thank you enough for your book and it’s critical review of the diet and fitness industries as well exposing the misinformation from the food giants. Yes you can eat this way for the rest of your life which will be longer because of it.
Thanks
Rod
PS: I enjoy hockey more than ever and am better at 52 than I was at 42! :)

