'Black Madam' Charged in Buttocks Injection Death


By JOANN LOVIGLIO Associated Press
PHILADELPHIA July 24, 2012 (AP)

A woman who calls herself the "Black Madam" is facing murder charges stemming from the death of a tourist from London who received an illegal buttocks-enhancing procedure.

Padge Windslowe, 42, was charged in the February 2011 death of Claudia Aderotimi, 20, following a series of silicone injections performed at a hotel near Philadelphia International Airport.

Windslowe, who police said uses multiple aliases, was arraigned Tuesday on charges of third-degree murder, conspiracy, reckless endangerment, possessing an instrument of crime and unauthorized practice of medicine. Windslowe, who also bills herself as a musical artist and uses the stage name "Black Madam," is scheduled for a preliminary hearing Aug. 8.

"Padge Winslowe's arrogance and blatant disregard for human life is shocking," District Attorney Seth Williams said Tuesday. "Her conduct cost one young woman her life and placed countless others in danger."

Windslowe was free for more than a year between Aderotimi's death and her February 2012 arrest at what police called a "pumping party" in a Philadelphia home. That arrest was for assault and related charges in a separate incident that authorities said landed a woman in the hospital for two weeks with severe respiratory problems from silicone particles lodging in her lungs.

"The defendant put her own greed above the public's health and safety," Williams said, "and instead of being remorseful, she bragged about prospective clients."

A phone message left Tuesday for the attorney in Windslowe's February arrest wasn't immediately returned.

Aderotimi complained of chest pains and shortness of breath after receiving the injection on Feb. 7, 2011, police said. Prosecutors said Windslowe told the woman to drink fluids and call an ambulance if necessary, then left.

Aderotimi died hours later at a suburban Philadelphia hospital.

Investigators said they knew Windslowe had injected Aderotimi, but the Delaware County medical examiner's office was awaiting test results from the Food and Drug Administration before determining the cause of death.

After receiving those results, the coroner ruled Aderotimi's death a homicide, concluding that she died from a blood clot that lodged in her lung because of complications from the silicone injection.

Illegal injections using substances including liquid silicone, paraffin and petroleum jelly have been used to enlarge women's breasts, hips and buttocks in other cases. Although the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the FDA don't keep data on injuries or deaths caused by illicit cosmetic injections, cases have been reported across the country and beyond.

In one high-profile case, Solange Magnano, a model and former Miss Argentina, died in Buenos Aires in 2009 from complications after having cosmetic injections in her buttocks.
