The Tournament of Roses: Post-Parade Float Viewing!

The Tournament of Roses Parade is a long-standing, Pasadena tradition. Beautifully constructed floats, utilizing flowers and other "green" materials to decorate these massive masterpieces, created to usher in the new year. This parade had humble beginnings. It was devised by the Valley Hunt Club in 1890 as a means to showcase the California area and lure tourists to it's shores. Now, the yearly spectacle can be viewed on t.v. in full HD. Some of the Grand Marshals of the parade over the years include notable names like Frank Sinatra, Bob Hope, George Lucas, and Mickey Mouse. What a sight to behold!

Actually, we didn't attend the parade this year. There are some diehard fans that are known to claim their seats along the parade route the day before, and others who wake up at the crack of dawn just to watch as the floats are lined into position, but we aren't morning people. This was a terrifying prospect for us, so we decided to view the floats at a civilized hour, during the Post Parade: A Showcase of Floats exhibit. Here, at the end of the parade route on Sierra Madre Blvd., we were able to walk within a couple of feet of the famous floats and scrutinize the craftsmanship in detail.

This was actually a lot harder than we thought initially. Going in we had the impression that it would be a couple of floats lined up and just a handful of diehard fans admiring the works of art at a slow pace, kind of like at a museum. But, we were TOTALLY wrong. This street was jam-packed. There was hardly enough room for us to move around and the floats just kept appearing! It was an endless sea of people, food stalls and flowers! We had to cover almost 2.5 miles of road just to view them all!

It was just unbelievable to see just how much work and time went into these large floats. Some floats take an entire year to make! Our favorites were the entries by Paramount, Namco/Bandai Games America and the Aids Healthcare Foundation. The theme this year was "just imagine..." and some of our favorite childhood memories were brought back to life with the Namco/Bandai Power Rangers Float! Paramount's float showcased their sci-fi blockbusters like, "Transformers" and "Star Trek" (with a replica of the Enterprise). The Aids Healthcare Foundation float featuring Elizabeth Taylor was gorgeous! It truly was a work of art.

If you want to plan a trip here for next year's Float Viewing, be sure to visit the official website for useful links to Park and Ride lots, fun facts and interesting photo galleries with pictures of Rose Queens and their courts dating back all the way to 1906!

http://www.tournamentofroses.com/TheRoseParade/Events/tabid/1535/ModuleID/371...
