
Conversation with my readers, 29 June 2012

by Paulo Coelho on June 29, 2012


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Maria July 7, 2012 at 2:31 pm

    Thank you Paulo for your kinds words ,wisdom and knowledge. You are truly a inspiration to people’s life. I am yet to fulfill my personal legend. I reading the book ‘ The Zahir’ and going to read ‘Aleph’ afterwards .When I read your books it is speaking to me in my life right now. Thank You!
    Maria- Hertfordshire, England.

    
Lynnette Matebese July 5, 2012 at 9:42 am

    Dear Mr Paulo,
    I’m sure I find you well. Just wanted to write you and say thank you for enlightening me through your books. A few years ago, shortly after a terrible seperation, and subsequently a divorce, I struggled with finding answers to my turmoiled life. I walked into Exclusive Books one day looking for a particular but they didn’t have. While in the queue I picked up The Secret. Didn’t take it too seriously then but bought it all the same. I couldn’t put it down once I took it home. A few weeks thereafter, whilst waiting to catch my flight, I again walked into the bookshop n this time I picked up The Alchemist. It changed my life for the better! It made practical sense of all the lessons I picked from The Secret. It made so much sense to me, as if you wrote it with me in mind haha. I’ve since bought several copies as gifts for friends, with the hope that Santiego’s story would inspire them to fulfil their destiny too, or at the very least, make them recognise that they do have one. I can’t say what mine is but I know I’m well on my way of achieving it. ‘Halil’ is my other character I draw from. Your books have helped me become a better person, and, by default, helped me to grow in all aspects. Thank you Paulo Coelho

    
Yan July 5, 2012 at 6:51 am

    Is there anyway to download Spreecast?
    love
    Yan

    
Keith July 4, 2012 at 8:00 pm

    Endless, a poem on the infinity of time …

    What’s the time again?
    The tender light through my shades
    defines the hour, timeless.
    Once again, I’m caged in infinity.

    And the sacred silence
    doesn’t help. Where are
    the children, why have they ceased
    their playing in the streets?

    Where are the murdered
    and the sick and the deceased?
    Where are the fumes and the deadly sirens
    of grief and endless fatigue?

    I need a sign, a whisper in my ear,
    a gentle touch of defined light
    to cast an hour on my clock
    and turn oblivion into night.

    Originally published by Blackprint Poetry.

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/07/04/endless/

    
yasmina July 4, 2012 at 7:13 pm

    merci pour toute les experiences que vous me faites vivre, pour toutes les realitées que vous me faites decouvrir, a travert vos livres j ai fait un grand voyage a l interieur de moi meme , j’ai appris a me connaitre et j ai pu voir plus clair , ca avait commencé avec “le zair” jusqu’a l”aleph” en attendant de faire un nouveau voyage en compagnie de vos mots , me reste qu’a vous dire merci!,un grand merci monsieurCOELHO

    
Olta Canka July 2, 2012 at 3:04 pm

    The best thing I could have heard for today:
    FIGHT THE GOOD FIGHT!

    Thanx! :) <3

    
Keith July 2, 2012 at 2:01 am

    What people read is greatly influenced by fashion. I hasten to add not I.

    Elizabeth Taylor the novelist not Elizabeth Taylor the actress wrote in the 1950s and 1960s.

    The 1950s & 1960s was a period of youth culture. Elizabeth Taylor wrote of the elderly.

    The 1950s & 1960s angry young men writing of boring working class realism. Elizabeth Taylor was posh middle class.

    But worse of all she had the same name as a well known actress.

    http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01k9npg

    
Rishabh Bhasin July 1, 2012 at 3:48 pm

    Do you know now what is amor fati? :P

    
Final revealitions ......your heart is going to provide but on my behalf.... July 1, 2012 at 6:29 am

    Paulo sir
    yesterday while you were replying to your readers some with high knowledge on inner values and fare unfare practices …. I was really impressed with a simple and wise reader of yours who has very clear cut concepts about life . Has Vision from Soul of Universe has WISDOM of A Visionary . I feel honoured to be one of his friends and a student of his cycle learning school for beginners ….. I love his Teachings …..

    
Final revealitions ......your heart is going to provide but on my behalf.... July 1, 2012 at 2:08 am

    Mr Paulo ….
    Can i ask a few questions from your readers (not from you sir as you are the master … You are the author of the books from which i am raising these queries )…

    The answers to these queries are of great importance to me and to them too….as these solutions are going to serve as my final revealitions which will be made by their own hearts on my behalf….

    > name some famous artists who have been criminals too … Or you may be knowing some one ?

    >the people who are guiding you to this ugly and filthy story / plot ….since how long you know them ….and how far in depth you know about them ….. Dont you feel their characters are needed to be studied before relying on their cunning brains …..

    >are not they misguiding you ? Think you will get the answers to all your queries … These will not be solutions but shall be VISION …..you are requested to first of all keep asides what i am ? What they are ? What relations we have (oh sorry we had ) …. Think logical and simple …. Follow your heart … What it says ?

    >why only one of you has a very clear vision ? Is it that his thought process is as simple as mine is in tune with each other ? How so deeply he knows about me ? Has all this some relation with my poems ? Have you gone through my various writings ? (i am asking so much in details as if i miss something your brains may not be able to make a proper study )… Going through them in cronological order does not it provide my mental state at various periods of my life ?

    >can compassion and violence co exist in some ones brain …. Or personality …. Can duality in a person be a contradiction as TRUELIES (INDICATIVE) ?

    I Am not intrested to know about the replies you gave as you yourself are your own judges …. This exercise was not to judge my personality … It was to judge your ownself …
    How did you score ?

    For today this is enough as i am going for a picnic with my friends and families …. To rejunivate my week end … To celebrate my new life with my Real Friends …. real well wishers….. My beloved ones …. Thanks Mr paulo my mentor who has brought back this beauty in my life …. I am overhelmed with joy and delight of living in this Moment …..

    
Keith June 30, 2012 at 11:15 pm

    But do not forget this one thing, dear friends: With the Lord a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a day. — 2 Peter 3:8

    Explains a lot!

    

    Annie July 1, 2012 at 12:47 am

        BTW it was great seeing you.. after so many days… or thousand years ?:)))

        Love and Gratitude
        Annie

Keith June 30, 2012 at 8:30 pm

    BBC had a three-part series on feminine side of religion a month or so ago. It was very good.

    BBC displays their usual crass stupidity and fails to hold on-line.

    It may be on youtube.

    
Jane Stewart (Dances With Crayons) June 30, 2012 at 5:44 pm

    A link to watch (or view again):
    http://www.spreecast.com/events/paulo-coelhoaleph

    Happy to see everyone, thankyou very much. Still smiling! Wonderful energy!
    The sound and picture, very clear.

    Love and Gratitude,
    Jane xo

    
Paola Giannetti June 30, 2012 at 5:05 pm

    Dear Paulo, I’m afraid to be always late when you decide to twitcam… anyway I’m also late in wishing you happy Saint’s day! My name is Paola too… and I was surprised that a lot of friends called me to celebrate it! Then I’ve thought about what you’ve written about the importance of Saint Paul and I’ve been very happy to remember your “Henry Drummond …”. I’m very proud to share the name with you (SAINT PAUL+YOU)!!! One of my greatest dreams is to thank you personally of all the good that you’ve brought in my life! Ciao, Paola

    
Abraham June 30, 2012 at 2:22 pm

    Add me

    
Keith June 30, 2012 at 2:20 pm

    Mention was made of reincarnation not recognised by the Catholic Church, but then hinted at a Biblical reference.

    What is that reference?

    The Catholic Church does not recognise women priests.

    The early church had women priests.

    Saint Paul had a woman disciple who had her own gospel (suppressed as heresy).

    In the catacombs beneath Rome are paintings of women priests, including a woman Bishop in full regalia.

  

    Kirstie Spence June 30, 2012 at 4:17 pm

        Hi Keith, did you see this program the BBC did on Women in Religion.
        http://www.bbc.co.uk/religion/religions/christianity/women/femininedivine_1.shtml

Keith June 30, 2012 at 2:00 pm

    It is often claimed music is declining.

    It is not. Music is thriving.

    What is declining is the big record labels that criminalise people who love music, who wish to share music.

    Sites like bandcamp that encourage sharing, yes that is right, encourage sharing, are doing very well.

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/02/08/bandcamp/

    Yesterday, I did my good deed of the day and ‘signed’ two young lads who I found playing in the street to Any And All Records, the world’s fastest growing record label, an excellent example of community supported music.

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/02/08/bandcamp/

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/04/14/community-supported-music/

    And why were they playing in the street? Because it was fun!

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/06/29/any-and-all-records/

    
Keith June 30, 2012 at 1:04 pm

    Time is a mystery, time is elastic.

    When I am with my lovely friend Lena, time stands still. We were in a restaurant having a drink. The staff came to us at midnight, said goodnight, and left us a candle. I noticed it was very quiet. I asked Lena what time did she think it was? It was gone 2am in the early hours of the morning.

    
Keith June 30, 2012 at 1:03 pm

    Mystery. There are things we cannot define, but we recognise when we see or experience, for example love. We cannot explain love, but we can experience love.

    In Zen and the Art of Maintenance, Phaedrus cannot define quality, but we all recognise quality. Eventually it drives him insane.

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/06/28/zen-and-the-art-of-motorcycle-maintenance/

    
Keith June 30, 2012 at 12:48 pm

    My thoughts entirely on James Joyce.

    Who is going to read Ulysses by James Joyce?

    Three weeks ago BBC Radio 4 dramatised Ulysses. There was discussions on Ulysses. Academics for who it was their subject matter admitted it was incomprehensible.

    http://www.bbc.co.uk/podcasts/series/ulysses

    If the role of a writer is to communicate, how can James Joyce be considered a great writer? It is claimed he is influential. Influenced who?

    
Falco Liebau June 30, 2012 at 12:45 pm

    Dear Paulo, thank your for this great opportunity to talk with you yesterday! It was a pity that my webcam didn’t work but at least you could hear me!

    The entire conversation with all your readers was beautiful, sometimes funny, but all the time really inspiring! It is heartwarming to see that you are looking for the possibility to talk with your readers! :)

    Ah and I forgot to say something yesterday. A friend of mine heard from me that I want to participate in this livechat and told me I should definitely greet you from her (she is like me a big big fan of your writings), so I hope I rectified it in this moment….

    Once again thank you for choosing me to participate! Perhaps you consider to do this once in a while and maybe using the hangout technology of google+. This would be a cool way to have a conversation with up to 9 people at the same time.

    
Danielle June 30, 2012 at 10:26 am

    Very interinsting conversation, especially when talking about inspiration and changes. Thank you for charing live your thoughts.
    Danielle

    
anne lei June 30, 2012 at 9:58 am

    why did i never knew this? Is there a repeat?

    
Wan June 30, 2012 at 6:59 am

    I love all ur books Paulo. I ve always wanted to be a writer since young … i wrote poems and short stories my my school magazines… but it wasnt until i read your books that I am inspired to be a writer sumday

    
kiba June 30, 2012 at 5:09 am

    thank you paulo even though i could not get answer to my question i somehow was answered as you answered to many i guess you speak bot languages at the same time well paulo:) your kindness is always repaid back and anytime your always cared paulo:) you made much friends with so many to see:D

    
Ask yourself what i have done for you ..... June 30, 2012 at 4:54 am

    Paulo …. The other day you were talking about …. Abert einstein quote ‘ only a life lived for others is worth living ‘ …. Your readers are so inspired by you that this virtue is running in every ones blood…. I salute you …..sir ….. And them too ….sort of…..

    
Clara Dark June 30, 2012 at 4:31 am

    I dont know what is happening to me. I went to bed, and only after a while I remembered was the date …I feel ashamed, because I forgot about that. But I will watch the recorded video. Thank you

    
Keith June 30, 2012 at 3:10 am

    Thank you Paulo for an interesting evening.

    My apologies you did not get an immediate response from me. I was so busy sending messages to people you were on live, I was not watching the video, then I became aware you was talking to me.

    I have sketched out what was discussed.

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/06/30/a-conversation-with-paulo-coelho/

    Earlier in the day I was recommending to a girl I was talking to in a bookshop that she read Aleph. And from where I picked up two Paulo Coelho books (always a good sign). One of which, The Pilgrimage, got a mention.

    Then, to two lads who I signed to a record label, I gave you as a good example of use of social media.

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/06/29/any-and-all-records/

    Contrary to what many people wrongly think, music is not dying, it is the major record labels that are dying.

    The previous evening I listened to a dramatisation of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, where much of what was raised in the conversation was discussed.

    http://keithpp.wordpress.com/2012/06/28/zen-and-the-art-of-motorcycle-maintenance/

    
Josie June 30, 2012 at 3:01 am

    Dear Paulo,

    Time and time again, you bring meaning to my life (and surely to the lives of most of your readers). You inspire and make us want to live. As a writer who dreams of escaping a monotonous career as a lawyer, I found your advice to Sebastian to be spot on. If only we all had the cajones to follow this good advice!

    I just finished reading O Aleph and you did it again, Paulo. You made me feel connected to the universe. I have had my share of Hilals but I yearn to find more old souls. The book was a generous mix of truths, fantasy, spiritualism, and experiences. Alcohol, travel, life. You remind me that I too can only have a conversation with my soul when we are both exploring deserts, seas, and oceans. Anyhow, be well and thank you for your contribution to humanity.

    Warmly, Josie

    
Mary Rivas June 30, 2012 at 12:34 am

    Paulo Thank you for your generosity in extending yourself to your readers. I enjoyed participating even though my questions were not answered. I sent my two questions via chat many times during the Spreecast video conference. I also sent you two questions VIA Twitter/Spreecast. Will you be reviewing the questions and comments that everyone sent you? I hope Spreecast will send you that data.

    The way you warmly interact with your readers is truly inspiring.
    Mari https://twitter.com/#!/ShamanicWisdom

    
Annie June 30, 2012 at 12:13 am

    What a great conversation! I hope the next is soon enough :)
    Enjoyed it greatly!
    love and gratitude
    Your little monster :)
    Annie

    
Claudio June 29, 2012 at 11:27 pm

    I have no idea when this video started, but sure i will enjoy it.
    Que O Eu Sou seja O Senhor do seu ser Paulo Coelho.
    Abracos.
    C. Barbosa.

   
Marie-Christine June 29, 2012 at 10:18 pm

    Dear Paulo,
    It was a new experience something I have never done before,
    I enjoyed it
    Thank you so much for allowing me to participate.
    with love
    Marie-Christine

    
Marie-Christine Grimard June 29, 2012 at 10:03 pm

    Thank you so much, dear Paulo, for this very interesrting Conversation. I want to thank you, for all your words so right and inspiring for us, and your amazings answers. I was so glad to see you like that..
    I thank you, to take my question, even technic had cut it… Il would to ask you: “How did you find the idea of the NEW book, Manuscrit of Accra..”
    Because, the idea for Aleph, I had yet understand when I readed it. ..
    I would also ask you, to explain us, if you think that A book is choosen its author, and how can it do that ? ..
    For all this evening with you, I thanks you sooooo much. And I tell you to rest , because I think it is very hard to do that.
    Good night , dear Paulo. ANd again, thanks for all you are.
    Blessings and Love. Marie-Christine

   

    Paulo Coelho June 29, 2012 at 11:24 pm

        believe it or not, I could not hear you during the chat because I touched a button and the sound went out! MY FAULT!

    Annie June 30, 2012 at 12:10 am

        Great to see you live <3<3
        Love and Gratitude
        Annie

    Marie-Christine Grimard July 1, 2012 at 8:53 am

        Despite the technical difficulties, it was a great moment for me, the feeling of having to share with you, and share your thoughts in real time. It was a wonderful idea, this conversation. The fact that people trade this from the world and gather around you to think together, it’s totally surreal when you think … but so exciting and rewarding.
        Finally, despite all that technology can bring new constraints, sometimes it is a magician and a ‘fairy godmother. ”
        Thanks again for that magical moment that you created, Dear Paulo.
        And also thanks to Annie. <3

Lola June 29, 2012 at 9:44 pm

    Dear Paolo, Thank you very much for your wonderful talk! Very inspirational!

   
ANGELICA OLIVARES June 29, 2012 at 9:43 pm

    Mi querido Paulo, si creo que un alma vieja como la mía puede tener esa libertad de tutearte. Te puedo decir que tus libros fueron el despertar o recordar algo que estaba no sé donde y que plasmarlo me cuesta tanto trabajo. Solo te puedo decir gracias y un gran abrazo desde México.

    
bere June 29, 2012 at 9:36 pm

    Hola como puedo lograr hablar el lenguaje del mundo?


bere June 29, 2012 at 9:35 pm

    Hola como puedo lograr hablar el lenguaje del alma?