The World in Their Wake
Lochte-Phelps Rivalry Will Continue in London
Illustration by Sam Manchester/The New York Times
By KAREN CROUSE
Published: July 23, 2012

In the beginning, Ryan Lochte swam at Michael Phelps’s hip and drafted off his fame. He signed with the same sports agency and the same swimwear company, and he smiled like a rakish groomsman after Phelps beat him at the 2008 Olympics in the 200- and 400-meter individual medleys.

Doug Mills/The New York Times

Michael Phelps edged Ryan Lochte in the 200-meter freestyle final at the United States Olympic trials, one of their four head-to-head swims, but he decided not to compete in that event in London.

From his perch on the deck in Beijing, Lochte observed Phelps racing as if wearing blinders on his way to a record eight gold medals, and Lochte’s mirth hardened into mettle. He realized it was not physical or mental strength that separated them; it was strength of purpose.

If Lochte was going to move out of Phelps’s slipstream, he would have to train smarter, eat healthier, lift more. He added strongman exercises to his dryland routine, grilled chicken breasts to his diet and two marketing mavericks to his inner circle. Out went greasy foods, sugary beverages and the Octagon representation that he shared with Phelps.

In the lead-up to the 2012 Olympics, Lochte, who turns 28 on Aug. 3, has been more focused at the pool, if no less flighty away from it. He has retained the skateboard, the sketchpad, the rococo wardrobe and the appetite for high jinks that call to mind a character in a Judd Apatow movie. His grand plan, executed so far without a glitch, is to roll out a more user-friendly version of Phelps in London.

“I’m not thinking about the money or medals or anything else; I’m just having fun racing,” said Lochte, who will compete in four individual events and the 4x200-meter freestyle relay at the Games and possibly a sixth event, as a member of the 4x100-meter freestyle relay team. “Right after I get out of the pool, I’m back to being relaxed Ryan.”

Phelps could have retired to the golf links after Beijing. But as he demonstrated at the United States Olympic trials, he is not ready for obsolescence. After a few fits and starts, Phelps, 27, became a more streamlined version of the multifaceted machine that remade the sport in 2008, qualifying for an eight-event program in London that he has since reduced to seven. He and Lochte will go head-to-head in both individual medleys and team up in at least one relay.

Phelps versus Lochte is the sport’s version of a perfect wave: two fierce competitors, one with the winningest portfolio and the other with a winsome personality, fighting a turf war with the world bearing witness. Theirs is not a match manufactured for ratings, even though NBC has played it up in its coverage; it is an organic rivalry that is raising interest in their sport.

The United States Olympic trials, held in Omaha for eight days beginning in late June, attracted journalists from as far afield as Australia, France, Germany, Britain, the Netherlands and Japan. On the day that Lochte and Phelps squared off twice, a scalper was selling tickets outside the arena.

Two weeks later, at a pre-Olympics training camp in Knoxville, Tenn., fans began lining up at 4 a.m. to watch the team’s 8 a.m. practice. By 7:30, an estimated 2,000 people were waiting in the rain to get inside the University of Tennessee’s 1,200-seat facility.

“When I look at what Michael and Ryan are doing to our sport right now,” said Frank Busch, the national team director for USA Swimming, “they are elevating it in ways that I don’t think any of us dreamed of.”

Outgoing or Understated

The mixed zone is where the paths of journalists and swimmers intersect, and after the heats of the men’s 400-meter individual medley on the first morning of the trials, the zone was flooded by reporters eager to speak to the main combatants. Phelps stopped, but not long enough to leave a puddle. Lochte stood and answered questions until Gregg Troy, his coach for the past decade, swooped in and dragged him by the arm to the warm-down pool.

Phelps’s journey, a mostly solitary one, was meticulously mapped out by his longtime coach, Bob Bowman, who has acknowledged, “The trade-off is he missed some experiences that other people had.” 