Egyptian President Names Minister in Interim Cabinet as Premier
By ROD NORDLAND and MAYY EL SHEIKH
Published: July 24, 2012

CAIRO — President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt named a prime minister on Tuesday, plucking from relative obscurity the irrigation minister from the country’s interim government, according to the official Middle East News Agency.


Hesham Kandil was named prime minister designate by Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi on Tuesday.


The new prime minister is Hesham Kandil, who is known as a religious Muslim but is not a member of the Muslim Brotherhood. A technocrat who headed the Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation under the interim cabinet appointed by the Egyptian military, Mr. Kandil is an American-educated engineer who is comfortable working with international agencies. At age 50, he is one of the youngest prime ministers in the country’s modern history.

Although he has generally not been in the public eye, Mr. Kandil came to prominence briefly in June when a subordinate, a section head in his ministry, climbed out on an eighth-floor ledge of the ministry’s building and threatened to commit suicide. Mr. Kandil went to the scene, spoke quietly to the man on the ledge and persuaded him to come back inside the building. Exactly what he said to the man was not revealed, giving Mr. Kandil a reputation for discretion as well.

He will need considerable skill to assemble a cabinet that would replace the current one, appointed by the military after the fall of President Hosni Mubarak.

His selection came a week after a deadline that Mr. Morsi, a former Muslim Brotherhood activist, had set for himself to name a cabinet. So far, no other members of a new government have been announced, and government ministries remain under the control of figures from the Mubarak era.

The delay in announcing a prime minister led commentators to suggest that Mr. Morsi was having difficulty forming the kind of national-unity government that he had promised voters. There may also be problems satisfying military leaders, who were expected to want to retain control of the security ministries.

After Mr. Morsi was elected president as the candidate of the Freedom and Justice Party, sponsored by the Muslim Brotherhood, he resigned from the Brotherhood and announced that he would form a government in which all major factions in Egyptian politics would be represented.

There was widespread speculation, however, that Mr. Morsi was unable to persuade any credible non-Islamist figure to take the crucial post of prime minister, and he reportedly asked ministers to remain in their jobs until he was able to assemble a new cabinet.

Appearing at a news conference after meeting with Mr. Morsi, Mr. Kandil said that the president would consult with the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces about the position of minister of defense. He said that for the new cabinet, “competency is the main criterion in selection,” but balancing its membership among different groups would also be a consideration.

He said he expected the cabinet to be formed in the next few days. 