Synthetic Fuel Made From Air and Water 

Written by Philip Proefrock on 24/10/12 

An English company called Air Fuel Synthesis has begun producing gasoline (petrol) directly from air and water. Using carbon capture technology to sequester CO2 out of the atmosphere, and electrolysis to crack water into its constuituent hydrogen and oxygen, the company's process then combines the hydrogen and carbon dioxide to create synthetic gasoline or other fuels.

To be carbon emissions neutral, any carbon that is going to be burned as fuel ought to have come from the atmosphere, rather than from fossil sources buried in the ground. That is why plant-based and microbial methods of producing fuel are considered relatively clean, since the carbon in them was atmospheric. This process short circuits that even further by directly extracting the CO2 from the air and synthetically creating the gasoline replacement.

In addition to the direct atmospheric carbon extraction, the process also uses renewable energy to power the electrolysis process, so that the carbon debt is not merely transferred. Although the feedstock is free, the other costs of the process are likely too high for this to be an immediate replacement for oil drilling and refining, at least in the short term. And the process has only been able to produce a small amount of fuel in its test facility, yielding just five liters (less than 1.5 gallons) in two months. But cost and capacity are issues that can be improved as the method is developed and scaled up.

This adds to the number of non-petroleum processes being developed for fuel production we have seen. It seems less a question of whether these methods will work than it is one of which ones will reach commercial scale, and how soon that happens.

via: Treehugger



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Acting Chairman of Poole Agenda 21
written by Tony Hamilton, October 24, 2012
The major problem is the energy efficiency of the process. How much many kilowatts of energy are required to produce the fuel equivalent of 1 kilowatt.
It is all very well saying that the electricity required will come from a renewable source but for the foreseeable future we will not have much "spare" renewable electricity. However it will be a possible method of using such "spare" renewable electricity though it is unlikely to be as efficient as pumped water or air energy storage.

   

Tech
written by Belfor Minneapolis, October 25, 2012
Is it just me or is anyone else impressed by how far and fast technology advances. I think it's amazing that they've come up with a way to do this even if it isn't perfected yet.

   

This is not going to work
written by lynn, October 25, 2012
There is way too much energy required for this to be anything but an academic curiosity piece. This process doesn't scale at all.

   


ummm... what?
written by sarah, October 28, 2012
I had no idea anything remotely like this was possible. Seriously, The hydrogen fuel cell somehow makes sense even though I am not a chemist...but gasoline out of thin air and water and electricity and carbon...I'm probably sounding like a bigger idiot by saying I've always wondered how the stuff we pump out of the ground ended up there and thought it likely that years and years and years upon years of rainforest or hurricane wash-up that got turned under somehow and decomposed and pressurized till it reached a state of being a liquid fuel again was how it came to be. It was never explained, this was just a hunch...so now I am questioning if we had a period of a lot of electric storms could it happen naturally from simply water and air and carbon? i realize i sound an idiot and yet i want to know more. 
