Chai-Spiced Cinnamon Rolls
October 23, 2012

I’ve had this flavor combination gemstone  living in my brain for the past few weeks.  I wanted to smash the beautiful flavors of chai with my always-obsession: cinnamon rolls.

If I made cinnamon rolls as often as I wanted them, I’d probably make the two to three times a day.  Not normal.  Not healthy.  Not generally acceptable.

I usually need to call someone when I make cinnamon rolls.  It’s not so much a friendly phone call as much as it is a cry for help.  The subtext is something along the lines of  ’I need you to come over here right now and help me eat these cinnamon rolls because if you don’t I’ll surely eat them all on my own and if I do that my only option is to blame you for friend negligence’.

All that being said, when Emily from Cupcakes and Cashmere and I decided to get together for brunch… I knew what’d I’d be making:  steamed broccoli cinnamon rolls DUH!

photo by emily schuman

I packed up my dough and bowls.  I packed up my spices and brown sugar.  I put on a dress and fished a matching pair of earrings out of the bottom of my purse… and I descended upon the kitchen of my new friend Emily.

I won’t even tell you how bonkers excited and nervous I was to hang with super-talented, super-blogger Emily Schuman.  I thought about what I was going to wear for three minutes… and then I remembered that I’m not a fashion expert aaaaattttt aaaalllllll. I wore a Forever 21 dress, a vintage belt, an orange slip I bought 13 years ago… and I painted my nails in the car (which is probably as illegal as texting while driving).  Totally normal.

I wanted these cinnamon rolls to feel like a cozy Fall blanket.

Nothing brings the cozy blanket quality out of food more than a boat-load of spices.

Ground cinnamon, cardamom, ginger two ways, cloves, and cracked black pepper.

This cinnamon roll recipe is one of my absolute favorites.  The recipe is born from these Cream Cheese Cinnamon Rolls (which are totally as indulgent as they sound).

What I love about this recipe is the softness of the dough.  It’s tender and lovely… almost feminine.  Though the dough is somewhat sticky, it can be easily coaxed into lusciously tender cinnamon rolls.  Work with the softness.

Dough is rolled thin and topped with melted butter and a candied ginger, spiced, brown sugar mixture.

Nothing here can go wrong.  Nothing at all.

It’s just so cool to be in the kitchen with someone you admire.

It’s really amazing to see how different people approach things.

I also LOVE taking in the little details and gear.

I have a naturally nosey nature.  That’s real.

This is where I live.

I live right here in these rolls.

These will rise and bake, rise and brown.

While the cinnamon rolls rise, I took in the details.

I’m a little obsessed with the gold silverware.

And the festive twine.

And the fancy white scissors.

Emily sets the brunch table.

I stand by and admire the Cinderella pumpkins.

I love to see how people work in the kitchen.

This is how Emily makes Bloody Marys.

It’s a crazy-beautiful mess.

Stir and…

Stir and serve.

Emily has tricks.  She chilled these Bloody Marys with tomato juice ice cubes.

Totally clever!

Brunch was divine!  Bloody Marys, warm and spicy cinnamon rolls, and an Onion and Ricotta Frittata that I can’t wait to tell you about!

photo by geoffrey fuller

After brunch we sat in the kitchen nook and played with candy corn.

We were making little post brunch treats (while simultaneously gorging ourselves on Halloween candy).  Yeeeesh!

photo by geoffrey fuller

Some things never change for me.

I always want to eat cinnamon rolls.  Cinnamon rolls should be the new Thanksgiving turkey.

I’m always nervous getting to know new friends… especially if I know they have fancier shoes that me (everyone has fancier shoes than me).

and

Food is how I make friends.  I’d like to come over and make your house smell like cinnamon rolls.  Just like that… friends!!

Emily, thank you for your sweet kindness and warm kitchen.  Next time I’m coming over with homemade pizza.  Just deal with it.  xo!

Chai-Spiced Cinnamon Rolls

makes 8 large rolls

Print this Recipe!

For the Dough:

1 – 1/4 oz (just over 2 teaspoons) package active dry yeast

1/2 teaspoon, plus 1/4 cup sugar

1/2 cup milk, at room temperature

2 Tablespoons light brown sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 large egg

1 large egg yolk

2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, sifted, plus more for kneading

1 teaspoon cinnamon

3/4 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon cardamom

pinch of ground cloves

1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus more for the pan

For the Filling:

1/2 cup sugar

1/4 cup light brown sugar

1/2 cup finely chopped candied ginger

1 Tablespoon ground cinnamon

1 teaspoon ground cardamom

1/2 teaspoon ground ginger

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon fresh cracked black pepper

1/8 teaspoon ground cloves

2 Tablespoons maple syrup

1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted

For the Icing:

1 1/2 cups confectioners’ sugar

3 tablespoons heavy cream

a dash of cinnamon, cardamom, and cloves

Making the Dough:

In the bowl of a stand mixer combine yeast, 1/2 teaspoon sugar and 1/4 cup water heated to 115 degrees F.  Stir to combine and let sit until frothy and foamy, about 10 minutes.

Add remaining sugar, milk, brown sugar, vanilla, egg, and egg yolk.  Beat with a wire whisk until well combined.  Fit the bowl onto the mixer, fitting with the dough hook attachment.  Add the flour, spices, and  salt and mix on medium speed until the dough just begins to come together.  Turn the machine on medium-high and knead the dough for 4 minutes.  The dough will be very moist.

With the mixer on medium speed, add the butter about 1 tablespoon at a time and continue to knead for about 6 minutes.  The dough will the wet and sticky.  Place the dough on a well floured work surface, and knead about 1/3 cup all-purpose flour into the dough.  Don’t worry, the dough still might be a little sticky.  It’s ok.  Just set the dough to rest in a large greased bowl.  Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and a kitchen towel and allow to rise in a warm place for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, or until doubled in size.

While the dough rises, make the filling.  Combine the sugar,  brown sugar, candied ginger, spices, and salt in a large bowl.  Stir to combine.  Stir in the maple syrup.  The filling will be slightly moist and crunchy.  Set aside.

When the dough has doubled in size, dump it from the bowl onto a heavily floured work surface.  Gently knead the dough  adding more flour as needed.  I think I added about 3 Tablespoons of flour.  Work the dough for about 1 or 2 minutes.  Once it’s no longer very sticky, place a kitchen towel over the dough and let rest for 5 minutes before you roll it out.

Using a floured rolling pin, roll the dough into a 10 x 10-inch square.

Brush the top of the dough with half of the melted butter.  We’ll use the rest of the butter after the rolls are baked.

Pour all of the filling onto the dough.  Spread evenly, leaving a 1-inch boarder at one of the short edges of the dough so the roll can be properly sealed.  Lightly press the filling into the dough.

Using your hands, lift up the bottom edge of the dough and roll it forward into a tight cylinder.  Place dough cylinder seam side down on a cutting board.  Using a sharp, thin knife, trim off the uneven edges.

Cut cylinder into 8 equal slices.  Nestle the slices, cut side up and evenly spaced in a butter 9 x 13-inch metal baking dish.  Cover pan with plastic wrap and set aside in a warm place to let rise for 1 hour.  You may also cover the rolls with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.

Heat the oven to 375 degrees F.  Uncover the rolls.  If you refrigerated the rolls, let them sit at room temperature for 15 minutes before baking.  Drizzle with remaining butter and bake until golden brown and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 30 minutes.

Make the icing:  While the rolls are baking, whisk together the sugar, spices and cream in a small bowl until smooth.

Transfer the pan of cinnamon rolls to a cooling rack.   Let cool for 5 minutes.  Dip the tines of a fork into the icing and drizzle over the rolls.  Serve immediately.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Jewels October 23, 2012 at 3:41 pm

I think I’d be more excited about you coming over to make cinnamon rolls, than a visit from Santa – yes paleez!

Kirsty Pope October 23, 2012 at 3:50 pm

My kitchen smells pretty wonderful at the moment as these finish off cooking!
Thanks for sharing the recipe :0)

Diane, A Broad October 23, 2012 at 4:19 pm

What a lovely way to make a new friend! Maybe I’ll invite myself over to prospective friends’ places by saying, “hey, can I maybe bake you some chai cinnamon rolls?” I can’t imagine anyone would say no to that. And if they do… I probably don’t want to be their friend.

Cathy Norrie October 23, 2012 at 4:36 pm

Oh my! Fall embodied in a pan of deliciousness! I can’t wait to try them… Thank you, thank you, thank you!

Loretta | A Finn In The Kitchen October 23, 2012 at 4:45 pm

This is going to sound a little crazy, but I totally want to squeeze that dough ball! Bread dough in general is so fun to work with, but there is nothing really like the silky cinnamon roll dough. Makes me want to dig in and get dirty!

Plus, it’s genius to use chai.

Monique @ Ambitious Kitchen October 23, 2012 at 4:48 pm

Gorgeous. I want to wrap myself between those cinnamon rolls and sink into an amazing food coma.

Jen October 23, 2012 at 5:45 pm

I love chai. And I LLLOOOVVEE cinnamon rolls. Love them. I want to call in sick to work and make these in the morning.

Jen October 23, 2012 at 5:54 pm

You are reading my m ind, in the best possible way! Both my kids have some dumb state testing at school tomorrow, and I was sitting here thinking that I should make them something special for breakfast, so naturally I concluded the thing to do was search your recipe index.

Lo and behold, all I had to do was visit the main page! I thank you, my boys thank you, Mr. Jingles thanks you . . .

(Although I too am wondering where the black pepper comes in! Is it in the bloody marys???)

ami October 23, 2012 at 6:18 pm

You are so super cute! I was reading and you won’t believe what I was doing after reading each of your sentences, I was like awwww so cute. Love you and you are my inspiration :)

Mandy October 23, 2012 at 7:07 pm

These look so delicious I wish I had called in sick today to stay home and bake them!

I have wondered though (while drooling over every cinnamon scrolls recipe you post, especially the raspberry one!) have you had any success or attempts at gluten-free ones? I’d love to make these for my colleagues at work but one of them is gluten-intolerant and I’d hate to make her miss out…

(p.s. thank you for my favourite blog, and for writing the book that my sister is buying me for Christmas!)

Desiree {CHIC COASTAL LIVING} October 23, 2012 at 7:32 pm

I’ve heard the name Joy the Baker and now I know who you are! A joy! Love this little festive get together that you and Em had! It’s fun to cook and talk with friends old and new! You inspired me to bake something special this weekend! Have a great week! I’m your newest follower! And if you like things coastal check out my blog…

jayne October 23, 2012 at 7:38 pm

Food brings people together. Where I live, if you want to get people to come to a function, just add “Lunch/Dinner will be served after the event… for free!” And trust me, come they will.

Plus, I love this version of cinnamon rolls! The spice mixes things up a bit. Like it.

roxanne October 23, 2012 at 7:39 pm

Joy the Baker and Emily from Cupcakes and Cashmere?!?! Two of my fave blogs mashed together in one yummy brunch? I love it…..I’m thinking you two should teach a class in Los Angeles! That would be totes fun…maybe Tracy Shutterbean could join and make it a real party/class/awesometimes!

Diane V. October 23, 2012 at 7:51 pm

Oh how I love to make cinnamon rolls and these ones look so wonderful. If you every need a “cinnamon roll eatin friend” I’m your gal. I can’t wait to try the recipe.

Ellen October 23, 2012 at 8:08 pm

Cinnamon rolls are gggooooood. And much like candy corn, addictive.
You can come make them at my place any time!
I will make you my own obsession, pie.
And a cocktail.

Nancy October 23, 2012 at 8:27 pm

Cinnamon rolls…. sigh. My version of Forever 21 is: Haven’t Been 21 in Forever.

Sarah | The Cyclist's Wife October 23, 2012 at 9:01 pm

Love the post, only wish I could taste too!

Jessica W October 23, 2012 at 9:03 pm

These sound amazing!

Side note: my friend stared at me in horror when I told her I painted my nails while driving this weekend….I reassured her that I only did it one nail at a time at stoplights. Thinking that’s a trick I probably shouldn’t repeat!

Gretta October 23, 2012 at 9:34 pm

ohhh la la it looks like an AMAZING day! I absolutely love Ms. Emily’s blog. I cannot wait to try those rolls. Brilliant!

Saeyoung Vu October 23, 2012 at 10:02 pm

This post made me sooo happy. I love your writing Joy. It is so honest. I had a long day at work and got home and made fried chicken wings. Last Sunday, I made Vietnamese summer roll, Lasagne and apple turn overs just because. I hear you Joy. I do sometime feel like I live in fried chicken batter. I make cupcakes for hobby. I baking and cooking is my therapy. But most of all, I love sharing with people I love. That is what it’s all about. I get you Joy!

Elana October 23, 2012 at 10:20 pm

Do you ever see something so simple and just have to smack yourself in the head? That’s how I felt about those tomato cubes. Amaze.

juliet tarantino October 23, 2012 at 11:08 pm

i absolutely LUVVVV the dress (and forever 21 – my husband jokes to me about how i’m 41 and luv ‘forever 41 going on 21;P)
gonna try those spiced rolls the next moment i get…thank you!!!!
juliet tarantino

Axelle the french cook October 23, 2012 at 11:25 pm

I never dared to bake cinnamon rolls. One day, I’ll have to try. Seriously.
PS : I love your “normal style”. ;)

Nicole @ Lapetitebaker October 24, 2012 at 12:26 am

My two favorite bloggers in the kitchen together! I wish I was invited to brunch. I guess I will have to settle for making this cinnamon rolls by myself and invite my friends over to share the goodness. Can’t wait!

Lindsay October 24, 2012 at 3:14 am

Love the belt!!! And the recipe. Your use of ingredients always inspires me to try new flavors together!

whilehewasout October 24, 2012 at 4:38 am

Well you look really pretty in that dress! The rolls look delicious.

Stephanie October 24, 2012 at 7:29 am

If i wouldn’t be in hot water, i so would be cancelling my weekend plans to stay home and make these, invite girlfriends over to knit and watch pride & prejudice for the bagazillionth time. Definitely in my bucket list of recipes to make!

Dalia October 24, 2012 at 8:10 am

spicy cinnamon rolls .. omG. You look gorgeous

Katherine @ eggton October 24, 2012 at 9:00 am

An orange slip—that is some serious style, woman. Love it.

Emily October 24, 2012 at 9:40 am

For whatever reason, I really loved this post-and the cinnamon rolls sound lovely. Thanks for writing, baking, and being you, Joy!

Jen October 24, 2012 at 10:16 am

Oh my goodness. made these for my family and brought the rest in to work and now everyone loves me. : )

You are so right about the dough. I may have actually sighed when I got my hands into it after rising. It is lovely, and bakes up beautifully. I will probably lighten up on the sugar in the filling next time, and I anticipate there being many, many next times!

lee October 24, 2012 at 10:23 am

You had nothing to worry about – the dress looked lovely on you, especially with that great peek of orange (and I don’t usually like orange!).

So wonderful to read about your brunch with a new friend, and can’t wait to try these cinnamon rolls! =)

megan October 24, 2012 at 10:31 am

Can’t wait to make these! I love your biscuit cinnamon rolls too….have been known to make them twice in one week !

Erica Lea | Cooking for Seven October 24, 2012 at 12:22 pm

Looks like you guys had an awesome time. Yes, it’s so interesting to see how someone else approaches photographing and styling food. :) BTW, I like your method of getting friends to eat desserts with you. I should try it on my sisters. ;) AND these cinnamon rolls look uh-mazing.

Chrissy October 24, 2012 at 12:26 pm

Two of my favorites in the kitchen! I hope you ladies had a fabulous time together!

adahliavolk.com

Rachelle October 24, 2012 at 12:56 pm

Food is how I make friends, too! I moved to the suburbs 3 1/2 yes ago when I married my love and I’m a little shy, but when people in the neighborhood have babies or surgery or just need a little pick-me-up I drop off food to them. And when our church has a party I always bring food. People may not know my name but when they see my face they know I’m the lady with lots of kids who brings everyone food!

Molly October 24, 2012 at 2:55 pm

yumsauce dot com! I am free for brunch today/tomorrow/anyday ever if you’d like to come over and make cinnamon rolls.

Caroline@inner-outerbeauty.com October 24, 2012 at 11:21 pm

Joy, your cinnamon buns looks absolutely delish! Since you say you love them, you must pay a visit to Sweden, home of cinnamonbuns. They’re so delish it’s dangerous. If you ever visit, drop me a line by my blog and I will give you the def toplist for Stockholms cinnamon buns bakeries and cafes. (After three pregnancies one can say I researched this very carefully since it was a main craving:)
Love Caroline

jennifer October 25, 2012 at 4:58 am

i totally painted my nails in the car today. and worried about the illegality of it. and maybe accidentally spilt a little iridiscent gold. yeesh! at least it wasn’t on the fabric…that makes it slightly better..right?

Sarah Jayne October 25, 2012 at 6:48 am

“Cinnamon rolls should be the new Thanksgiving turkey.” Perfectly stated and perfectly true. Thank you for the beautiful storytelling and the delicious recipe!

Sini October 25, 2012 at 6:57 am

Such a beautiful picture of you in the kitchen, Joy! Can’t wait to try these cinnamon roll (my first cinnamon rolls, can you imagine??).

Shannon October 25, 2012 at 7:40 am

Clearly I need to learn how to make cinnamon rolls so I can make some new friends too!

Carrie October 25, 2012 at 7:53 am

These look/sound divine! Wish I had one right now at work!

Erin @ The Food Doctors October 25, 2012 at 10:43 am

What a beautiful morning. Thanks for posting all the details – it makes me feel like I was there.

Jamie Tidwell October 25, 2012 at 4:01 pm

Hello Joy!

Monday was my first day hearing about your blog and I saw these cinnamon rolls and immediately tried them. They were the best I’d ever had. Thanks for sharing,

Happy Baking!

Katie@Cozydelicious October 25, 2012 at 6:12 pm

These cinnamon rolls look awesome! And your fall table, with those cute pumpkins, is so adorable! I just love this time of year, and all the yummy kitchen treats that go with it.

Anna Rae October 25, 2012 at 9:22 pm

Joy! I’m glad you get nervous making friends as well . . . em, not that I’m glad you get nervous. You know . . . I just got married and moved to Canada, & getting plugged into the community gives me butterflies in my stomach! Not the flirty kind. The kind that make you have the unsure laughter & the I’mthinkingabouthowcozymykitchen&lifeisathome-itis. But it’s good. And I think you have inspired me to make cinnamon rolls & friends. So thanks.

Bec October 26, 2012 at 7:01 am

i cannot begin to describe how perfect these rolls look. I am the BIGGEST chai and cinnamon fan and in a roll … i am actually drooling… thank-you a million times for this recipe .. and bookmarked! great blog by the way! :) and wow how amazing to work with ‘cupcakes and cashmere’!

Fonzi October 27, 2012 at 9:14 am

Hey Joy! I tried making this earlier, but I came across some problems : ( I followed all the steps, the mixture/dough seemed fine until I kneaded the flour in and put it in a bowl to set. A hour half after, it was still very sticky and wouldn’t form a dough. So I added more flour and let it rest in the bowl again. It just doesn’t seem like it’s going to raise a double size. What should I do? Should I try rolling it out or trash it? : (

Julie Alexandra October 27, 2012 at 1:20 pm

I just took mine out of the oven, and I can hardly wait for them too cool down enough for me to eat them all! (Maybe not all of them, but close to it..) My whole house smells soo good, i just want to eat the air. Thank you so much for these!

Anna October 27, 2012 at 7:25 pm

That was fun. Thanks for sharing with us – and yes the gold cutlery is definitely an item worthy of envy.

tariqata October 28, 2012 at 8:16 am

Just pulled these out of the oven! I plan to bring most of them to a friend this afternoon, but my husband and I each had one. And it’s going to be a real struggle not to have another…

(Especially with the cream cheese glaze that I couldn’t resist using – yum!)

Holly October 28, 2012 at 1:11 pm

Thank you so much for giving the actual chai spice dimensions! I hate it when a recipe just says “chai spices” because I can’t find it here and I’ve been dying to make something like this. You’ve brightened my evening.

Aisha October 28, 2012 at 1:55 pm

I just made these for a community brunch with a few mods. I never thought I would make cinnamon rolls. These were great. I used some whole wheat flour with the AP flour. I forgot to pour the butter over them before baking and they came out just fine. I would however I would reduce the amount of cinnamon next time to let the cardamom and ginger shine .

Cookie and Kate October 28, 2012 at 9:46 pm

I am obsessed with all things chai spiced. These cinnamon rolls look divine!

Mary October 29, 2012 at 8:12 am

Loved these! They were amazing and a hit with everyone. Thanks for another great recipe.

Kay October 29, 2012 at 8:32 am

how do you recommend freezing these for make ahead? I love ginger, and these look great.


