
Congratulations to Newmarket sausages, but this label has a price

Newmarket sausages now have protected EU status. But do such awards give companies an unfair commercial advantage?


Blue Stilton cheese from Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire, has a protected geographical status. Photograph: David Sillitoe for the Guardian

It's a happy day for some sausage makers: Newmarket sausages are the latest food to be awarded Protected Geographical Indication (PGI) status by the EU. The sausages now link happily with Arbroath smokies, Cornish pasties, Gloucestershire cider, "Scotch" beef and lamb, Welsh beef and lamb, Whitstable oysters and others. Italy has well over 200 PGIs (and PDOs – Protected Designation of Origin – a similar system of recognition), France around 200, Spain well over 150. Newmarket sausages becomes the UK's 50th food product to earn European recognition for their quality, history and links with the local area.

I spoke to a tired but delighted Chris Sheen, MD of Musks Newmarket Sausage. "I made my first application 10 years ago," he says. "It went backwards and forwards as they decided on a geographical area. Defra helped us with the application, then the EU sat on it for a year. By the end, we were on 18 versions of the application – there was a lot of mental aggravation when they kept coming back and asking for more changes, but it was all worthwhile."

Good luck to Sheen: I hope he sells more sausages as a result of this. But the issue raises a number of questions. Promoting local foods is a sound idea in principle. If you live in Suffolk, it's nice to help the local economy by buying its sausages. And if those sausages are any good – although I don't remember having tried them, I've every reason to believe they are – then it's worthwhile to bring them to wider attention.

But it's not hard to foresee potential problems. After their efforts, producers of Newmarket sausages are now rewarded with a shiny badge to emblazon their packets. But earlier this year the EU rejected an application by Lincolnshire sausages for PGI on the grounds that there were already "too many variations" of the product in the UK. That was the only reason – too much replication. It was outside the remit to consider the taste of the food, or whether Newmarket sausages deserve to be given a commercial advantage over those from Lincolnshire, even though that's the effect of this.

The sums aren't trivial, either. Welsh lamb producers saw their income rise 45% over three years as a direct result of their PGI status. Melton Mowbray pork pies and Stilton cheese reportedly bring in £100m in sales and tourism to their local regions. As the broadsheet food writer Rose Prince has said: "There's no reason why a pork pie made in a factory in Melton Mowbray should be better than one made by a butcher in Norfolk."

If you want to label your cheese legally as Stilton, you need both to manufacture it according to certain rules and to do so in parts of Derbyshire, Leicestershire or Nottinghamshire. But Stilton the village is in Cambridgeshire. It may, in fact, be moot whether blue "Stilton" cheese was ever made in Stilton. But production is now limited to those counties because the dairies who first made the application were based there. They now have a clear commercial advantage over dairies in nearby counties that want to make "Stilton" cheese – most of whom won't bother.

Systems such as this, which effectively create miniature cartels or which at least encourage a mindset that mimics that of a cartel, can easily choke innovation. We improve things by building on the ideas of others: if someone improves on, say, your beer recipe but happens to live 100 miles away, shouldn't the governmental framework thank them for this and encourage others to do even better? Is any of this the best use of the EU's budget? Nonetheless, as I say, good luck to the Suffolk sausageers.

