
Consumer lending soars

Concerns run of below-inflation wage rises has forced low and middle earners to rely on debt in the runup to Christmas


Mortgage brokers say Bank of England's funding for lending scheme may have boosted loan availability. Photograph Christopher Furlong/Getty Images

Consumers in the UK took on £1.7bn of debt in September, including the biggest surge in unsecured borrowing in more than four-and-a-half years.

The boost to lending on credit cards, overdrafts and personal loans, which totalled almost three times the average of the previous six months, was welcomed by some analysts as a sign that consumers are rebuilding their battered confidence on a stable unemployment rate and fall in inflation.

This optimistic view was offset by concerns from others that a run of below-average wage rises has forced low and middle income households to increasingly rely on debt in the runup to Christmas.

Wage rises running below the rate of inflation and a switch in emphasis across commercial and industrial employers to part-time working have pushed down household incomes and increased the pressure to apply for short-term loans, some economists said.

Figures from the Bank of England showed that individuals took on £0.9bn of borrowing during September – a marked change from the summer when borrowing remained static in June and July and net repayments totalled £163m in August.

When £0.3bn of spending on credit cards is added in, new unsecured borrowing amounted to £1.2bn – the sharpest rise since February 2008. The figures follow positive retail sales data for the month, which showed a 0.6% increase in volumes, and news that the UK came out of recession in the third quarter of 2012.

A £0.5bn rise in mortgage lending boosted the figures.

Howard Archer, chief UK economist at IHS Global Insight, warned against reading too much into one month's data, but said it could be an early sign that consumers were becoming more confident about spending.

"The marked rise in consumer credit in September is potentially notable as consumers' appetite for taking on new borrowing has been limited for some considerable time, while there has also been an ongoing strong desire of many consumers to reduce their debt," he said.

"If consumers are becoming more prepared to spend – helped by recent healthy employment growth, lower overall inflation and an edging up in earnings growth from the lows seen earlier in 2012 – then there is a real chance the economy can continue to grow following the third-quarter rebound in GDP."

But researchers Capital Economics argued the figures revealed the weak state of consumption and should ring alarm bells.

"The prominence of growth in consumer credit suggests that it may reflect households seeking to maintain spending in the face of continued declines in real earnings. So September's numbers may be more indicative of the economy's weakness than any resurgence in its strength," said UK economist Martin Beck.

"With continued weak earnings growth and a likely rise in unemployment, we still expect overall spending to grow by just 0.5% next year," he said.

There was an increase in the number of mortgages approved in September to 94,385 from 90,023 in August. The number of loan approvals for house purchases reached 50,024, higher than the previous six-month average of 48,832, though still roughly half the long-run average of 90,000 to 95,000.

The number of approvals for remortgaging also increased, totalling 28,343 compared to the previous six-month average of 27,664. A price war on mortgages for borrowers with 40% to put down as a deposit, combined with an increase in the standard variable rate at Santander, may have prompted borrowers to move their loans to a new rate.

Mark Harris, chief executive of mortgage broker SPF Private Clients, said the Bank of England's funding for lending scheme launched in August may also have boosted numbers.

"The uptick in lending seen in September is caused by a number of factors: increased loan availability, better rates as a result of the funding for lending scheme, and increased confidence among buyers. Some more realistic pricing from vendors keen to shift stock that has been hanging around for a while is also helping," he said.

Beck said funding for lending, which provides high street lenders with cheaper finance directly from the central bank, was likely to be making an impact but rates on new mortgages remain 0.27 percentage points above their level a year ago, while mortgage approvals are still about 15% below their level at the beginning of the year.

