
New AstraZeneca chief executive gets £10m package

Pascal Soriot receives £4m golden hello and £1.1m base salary after jumping ship from Swiss rival Roche

Pascal Soriot is carrying out a strategy review and will unveil the results to investors at the end of January. Photograph: Reuters

AstraZeneca is paying its new chief executive a package worth up to £10m this year, including a "golden hello" of £4m – but a shareholder group has questioned whether performance hurdles for some of the awards are "sufficiently stretching".

Pascal Soriot, who started on 1 October after being recruited from Swiss rival Roche, will get about £2.3m as a guaranteed package: an annual base salary of £1.1m, £991,080 in lieu of the bonus he would have received at his previous employer, which has to be invested in AstraZeneca shares, and £264,000 which he can invest in the company's pension scheme or take as cash.

The £991,080 is part of a total of £4m paid for the loss of his long-term incentives from Roche.

In addition, the Frenchman will get a performance related annual bonus with a "target" to pay out 100% of his salary – but which could pay up to 180%. He will also get long-term incentive awards amounting to 250% of salary.

Alan Brett, research manager at Manifest, the shareholder advisers, said the £4m figure matched the value of outstanding awards Soriot held at Roche, while a slightly greater proportion of the AstraZeneca awards had performance criteria attached.

But he questioned whether the performance conditions for the annual bonus and future LTIP awards are truly demanding. "We raised concerns in our AGM report this year as to whether the performance targets for the AstraZeneca incentive plan are sufficiently stretching, and looking at the targets for the recruitment award, these concerns remain."

He said of the £4m golden hello payments: "It's fairly typical of most recruitment packages these days: no exec will jump ship while sitting on substantial long-term incentives – that is one of the main reasons they exist in the first place. Being realistic, the company had to do this or have to settle for a candidate not currently in employment."

He said Soriot's overall package was similar to his predecessor's £6.5m package, apart from a slightly higher salary. "It seems about right based on what their competitors and other large FTSE 100s are paying and on what the outgoing CEO received."

AstraZeneca's latest results highlighted the challenges faced by Soriot, with third-quarter sales sliding by 19% to $6.7bn (£4.2bn). The industry veteran, who started out as a vet, is carrying out a strategy review and will unveil the results to investors at the end of January.

At Roche, he served as chief operating officer of the pharmaceutical division, with a turnover of $34bn, a similar size to AstraZeneca. Previously he was chief executive of Genentech and led the integration of the US biotech firm into Roche from 2009.

He succeeded David Brennan, who quit abruptly on the morning of AstraZeneca's annual meeting in April amid calls from shareholders for a radical shakeup. Brennan, who led the group for more than six years, struggled to replenish the drugmaker's threadbare pipeline of new medicines at a time when many of its blockbuster drugs are coming off patent.

Heartburn pill Nexium and heart drug Crestor will lose their protection in 2014 and 2016 respectively. Efforts to revamp the company's research operation, including thousands of job cuts in neuroscience and the setting up of a "virtual" brain research unit which relies on external partnerships, have yet to pay dividends.

One of the pharmaceutical industry's longest-serving bosses, Brennan left with a £4.6m payoff but lost out on nearly £4m in bonus and share award payments after the company's remuneration committee stepped in to limit his exit package.

He was paid more than £9m in total for 2011, just as the company reported net profit was down 44% and revenues were down 11% for its first quarter.

Brennan stuck to small acquisitions and partnerships after his £10bn purchase of US biotech MedImmune in 2007 turned out to be an expensive flop.

Soriot was quick to suspend share buybacks on his first day in office, triggering speculation that he is on the prowl for larger deals. AstraZeneca has been frequently linked with US firm Forest Laboratories.

