Nokia Launches Verizon Smartphone 

By SVEN GRUNDBERG

STOCKHOLM—Nokia Corp. Monday unveiled an exclusive $99 smartphone for U.S.-based carrier Verizon Wireless, expanding the Finnish handset maker's footing in the vital U.S. market.

The Lumia 822, which supports fourth generation data network connectivity, or 4G, is considerably cheaper than the most affordable version of Apple Inc.'s new iPhone 5, which costs $199.99 on a two-year contract. It is also cheaper than the 4G-enabled Samsung Galaxy SIII device, which also costs $199.99 on a two year AT&T contract.

Getting more support from U.S. operators is vital for Nokia, which has lost ground to competitors in the U.S. after it several years ago misjudged consumer appetite for more sophisticated and capable smartphones. Nokia shifted its operational focus from smartphones back to basic phones at the same time Apple's higher-end iPhone revolutionized the market in 2007

Nokia has previously worked closely with AT&T Inc. in the U.S., with its previous Lumia 900 flagship device that went on sale in March this year. However, sales have failed to impress and in the third quarter Nokia sold only 300,000 devices in North America.

Nokia hopes that its new line up of devices, which include the Verizon-exclusive Lumia 822—in addition to the previously announced Lumia 920 and Lumia 820 smartphones—will be greeted with a warmer reception from consumers. The 920 and 820 will be offered through AT&T.

The new Lumia devices will run Microsoft Corp.'s latest software for smartphones, called Windows Phone 8. The new operating system promises several improvements compared to previous versions of Microsoft's software for smartphones. It is compatible with more advanced hardware, such as high-definition screens and faster processors, and supports Near Field Communication, a wireless technology that makes it possible for phones to transmit data merely by tapping or waving near other terminals equipped with the technology.

New Windows phones are also compatible with Microsoft's new Windows 8 software for tablets and computers, which means that certain applications will function on both operating systems.

Competitors including HTC Corp., Samsung Electronics Co. and Huawei Technologies, have also announced that they will sell devices running the new Windows Phone 8 software.

AT&T earlier this month said it will sell the Lumia 920 flagship device in the U.S., but has yet to announce what it will cost. However, consumer electronics retailer Best Buy put the price of the new device at $149.99 on a two year contract with AT&T, although later removing the device form its website.

Write to Sven Grundberg at sven.grundberg@dowjones.com 
