LG Display Swings to Profit, Misses Forecast 

By JUNG-AH LEE

SEOUL—Demand for displays used in smartphones and tablets helped LG Display Co. post its first quarterly net profit in a year, though its earnings missed analysts' forecasts.

Flat-screen makers like LG Display, which have struggled as sales of televisions and personal computers have slowed, are now benefiting from the continuing shift in consumer taste toward portable, hand-held devices. New mobile device offerings from technology giants Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. look set to continue to boost the industry, though LG Display Chief Financial Officer James Jeong said Friday global economic weakness will continue to be a challenge.

LG Display, the world's second-largest flat-panel maker by revenue after Samsung Electronics, supplies screens for Apple's new iPhone 5 and the just-unveiled iPad Mini tablet. It posted its earnings a day after Apple reported its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings climbed 24% because of demand for these gadgets.

After four quarters in the red, LG Display delivered a net profit of 158.19 billion won ($144.1 million) for the quarter ended Sept. 30. That reversed a net loss of 688 billion won a year earlier, but missed the 199 billion won average forecast of six analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires.

"Due to the macroeconomic issue, overall industry shipments are unlikely to increase rapidly in the fourth quarter," said Mr. Jeong. "But LG Display's profitability will continue to improve based on expanded sales of high-end specialty products as shipments for new smart devices increase in earnest. For next year, the slowing of panel demand may persist, but overall conditions will improve as demand is expected to outstrip supply."

The Korean company also looks set to benefit, analysts say, as Apple seeks suppliers other than Samsung, its adversary in a global patent battle. Given the limited alternatives, LG Display will have leverage with Apple, Citi said in a recent report.

"In non-Samsung premium-panel markets, we expect LG Display, as a more reliable supplier, will benefit from slower improvement in Sharp's financial and operational status and limited penetration progress by commodity LCD panel laggards," Citi added. Sharp Corp. and other Japanese consumer-electronics companies are restructuring after racking up billions of dollars in losses.

Citi forecasts a fourth-quarter operating profit for LG Display of 303 billion won, helped by an improved product mix that includes higher-end displays.

Apple sold 26.9 million iPhones in the fourth quarter, 58% more than a year earlier. Last month it released the latest model, and this week it introduced a new iPad with a 7.9 inch screen that goes on sale next month.

LG said quarterly display shipments are likely to rise by a high-single digit percentage while panel prices remain stable for the rest of the year. It also said 2013 capital expenditure will come in slightly lower than the earmarked four trillion won.

The company swung to an operating profit of 253.41 billion won in the July-September quarter, having lost 492.05 billion won a year earlier. Sales were up 21%, to 7.593 trillion won from 6.269 trillion won.

Write to Jung-Ah Lee at jung-ah.lee@wsj.com 
