Leading Britain, Finally, Into the 4G Age 

By LILLY VITOROVICH

LONDON—Olaf Swantee has had a busy time of late. Since taking over the top job at the U.K.'s biggest mobile operator by revenue, EE, just over a year ago, he has been driving the integration of the company's two networks, Orange and T-Mobile, and drawing up plans for its fourth-generation network.

EE—originally called Everything Everywhere—was created in 2010 from the tie-up of Deutsche Telekom AG's U.K. unit T-Mobile and France Télécom's Orange, but the union was fraught from the outset, with a fragmented business model and little investment.

Mr. Swantee says the company was like Noah's Ark when he took over as chief executive, with two of everything.

"The strategy we had was all focused on sweating the existing network assets, maximizing return and synergy capture and in that way delivering the 25%-plus margin, which we have committed to our financial stakeholders."

A few months after the merger was completed, EE committed to delivering an adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization margin of over 25% by 2014. That compares with 20.3% at the end of June. 

Following talks with the group's shareholders, Deutsche Telekom and France Télécom, Mr. Swantee announced in December that EE would spend £1.5 billion ($2.40 billion) on improving its services and network amid growing customer demand for superfast Internet access on smartphones and tablet computers. That meant simultaneously completing the integration of its two mobile networks and preparing for its 4G launch.

"We want to be the company with the best network and best service so that our customers trust us with their digital lives. We brought the focus back to its core capabilities—network and service—and that has helped in accelerating the integration," he says.

With its two networks finally integrated, EE will launch the U.K.'s first 4G network on Tuesday after much wrangling with telecommunication regulator Ofcom and rivals Vodafone Group PLC, Telefónica SA's U.K. business O2 and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.'s Three UK.

Ofcom's decision in August to allow EE to use its existing network to provide 4G services was a major victory for Mr. Swantee, giving the company a near 12-month head start over its competitors.

Unlike its rivals, EE has excess spectrum capacity—a result of the merger that created the U.K.'s biggest 3G network. The company has also sold some spectrum to Three UK as part of its agreement with the European Commission to secure approval for its merger.

But the good news didn't last long, as EE's competitors threatened legal action to stop it from gaining a big advantage.

Frustrated with the numerous delays to the 4G rollout—Britain is lagging behind many countries and regions, including the U.S., Germany, Scandinavia and parts of Asia—the U.K. government stepped in and brokered a deal, mollifying EE's rivals. This paved the way for EE's 4G network launch and allowed Ofcom to fast-track the mobile-spectrum auction that will enable other operators to launch their own 4G services.

Mr. Swantee is tight-lipped on the peace talks, noting that it was "very difficult because not all the industry players necessarily wanted 4G as quickly as we wanted it in the U.K."

From Tuesday, EE's 4G network will be available in 10 cities, including London, Leeds, Manchester and Cardiff, with a further six cities to be added by Christmas, covering 20 million people, or a third of the U.K.'s population. The rollout will accelerate through next year, with a commitment to cover 98% of the population by the end of 2014.

Vodafone, O2 and Three UK are expected to launch their own 4G networks by the middle of next year, after a mobile-spectrum auction in the new year.

EE's 4G network will be around 10% to 20% more expensive than its 3G service but five times faster.

The cheapest 4G plan for consumers will be £36 a month on a 24-month contract. All contracts on the 4G network will be for 24 months, which will allow EE to lock in customers as rivals scramble to set up their own 4G services.

EE will also offer customers superfast fiber broadband for the home, which will run over BT Group PLC's fiber broadband network.

As well as hoping to retain its 27 million customers with its new 4G network and broadband, Mr. Swantee also aims to entice new customers, particularly companies. "Employee workforces are becoming increasingly nomadic, and so I think a lot of businesses will be very, very interested to move to 4G quickly," he says.

He is proud of what he and his team have achieved so far. "To be able to launch 4G, to integrate behind the scenes, to build a new brand alongside Orange and T-Mobile, to establish the network, to change the IT systems, I mean everyone had to participate, and that has been quite unique in the transformation of this company," he says. "I was pretty proud of the fact that everyone delivered."

Asked about market speculation about an initial public offering down the track, Mr. Swantee says the company's shareholders are "very committed" to the business. A France Télécom spokesman ruled out selling its 50% stake in EE, while Deutsche Telekom's spokesman declined to comment on talk of an IPO.

Before taking the helm at EE, Mr. Swantee was running Orange's international operations and a board member of EE. Prior to that, he chalked up 17 years in the IT industry, working at Compaq Computer Corp., Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. in Europe and the U.S.

From his time in the IT industry, Mr. Swantee says he learned "American management techniques"—how to be more efficient and productive, as well as how to drive growth.

Mr. Swantee has also learned from the things that went wrong.

"I learned from the mistakes I've made in the past on mergers; what not to do. I think I've learned a lot from that because in the IT industry I had the chance to work through two very big mergers, and one smaller one," he says. "The very big one was Compaq buying Digital Equipment, which didn't work very well, which was a difficult integration, very, very difficult and with a lot of mistakes. And then afterwards, HP bought Compaq, and I would argue that was a much better merger."

One of the perks of his current job is that Mr. Swantee is able to spend more time with his family. After living in Zurich and traveling extensively in his previous role, he now splits his time between EE's office in Paddington, London, and operations around the U.K. "I traveled a lot during my career so I think it's very, very nice to work local, and to work in one market."Once the 4G rollout is complete, Mr. Swantee says he will look for opportunities to differentiate EE in terms of its network and service.

"Beyond 4G there will be other network technologies that we will then use; there will be new applications that we don't know about yet. There will be new things you can do, there will be new devices, there will be new things and that's what makes this market so exciting. It's not even changing every three years, it's changing every year."
Résumé

Age: 46

Nationality: Dutch

Position: chief executive, EE

Based: U.K.

Time in job: 13 months

Previous positions:

April 2010-August 2011: Orange-FT Group, executive vice president, Europe, and purchasing worldwide

August 2007-March 2010: Orange-FT Group, executive vice president, Europe, and mobile worldwide;

May 2002-July 2007: Hewlett-Packard, various positions, including managing director, Western Europe; February.

1990-April 2002: Compaq Computer, various positions 
