Hitachi Set to Win Bid for U.K. Nuclear Venture 

By SELINA WILLIAMS

LONDON—Japan's Hitachi Ltd. is the preferred bidder to acquire Horizon, a British nuclear project jointly owned by RWE AG and E.ON AG, a person familiar with the matter said.

Hitachi is linked up with Canada's SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. in a consortium that is bidding against Westinghouse Electric Co, a unit of Toshiba Corp. The winning bid is expected to be unveiled next week, and an announcement could be made as early as Tuesday, the person said.

The news is likely to give a boost to Japanese nuclear companies, who are stymied at home following the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011 and are actively seeking new markets elsewhere, and view the U.K. as a good base for further European expansion plans.

The deal is also vital for the U.K. government, which has put nuclear energy at the center of its energy policy. The government wants to get new nuclear projects up and running in an effort to keep the lights on—as old coal and nuclear power stations start to close over the next few years—while also meeting targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

But the recession in Europe, which has made capital harder to come by for such costly projects, and new legislation could slow plans. So could the U.K. regulatory approval process for the reactors, which typically takes around four years.

The euro-zone crisis and recession in Europe has hit electricity demand forecasts in the region and concerns over budget deficits have made it politically difficult to approve the subsidies many say are required to get the costly plants built.

"The sale of Horizon doesn't mean new build for nuclear, but it is much more positive news in that direction," said Imperial College fellow and nuclear expert Malcolm Grimston.

In March, German utilities RWE and E.ON said they were scrapping their plans to develop new nuclear in the U.K. and put their Horizon joint venture up for sale. RWE cited the global economic crisis, which has made capital for such large and costly projects scarce, and the accelerated phase-out of nuclear power in Germany, which has hit revenues there, as reasons for the pullback in the U.K.

Through the Horizon joint venture, RWE and E.ON planned investments of about £15 billion ($24 billion) in around six gigawatts of new nuclear capacity by 2025 starting with a new plant at its site in Wylfa in Wales and later a facility at Oldbury in Gloucestershire in central England. In addition to the sites, the Horizon venture has the grid connections and around 130 employees, including technical specialists, engineers, and project development specialists.

The German utilities didn't select the reactor technology they would use for the power plants, deciding instead to leave that up to a potential new owner.

Hitachi would use their Advanced Boiling Water Reactor, or ABWR, which is already in operation in Japan, with others under construction in Taiwan. That reactor design would need to go through a licensing process in the U.K.

But given that there are already four ABWRs in operation in Japan, the approval process could move smoother than with untested technology. Construction risks would also be reduced with the ABWRs, which have been built on time and on budget in Japan, nuclear industry experts say.

Two other groups are still interested in developing new reactors in the U.K. Electricité de France SA, along with Centrica PLC, is the most advanced and plans to make a final investment decision on its new plant by the end of this year.

A second group—NuGeneration Ltd., comprising Iberdrola SA and GDF Suez SA, plans to take the final investment decision around 2015 and build a new nuclear power station of up to 3.6 gigawatts near Sellafield in northwest England by 2023.

Analysts are skeptical of utilities' ambitious nuclear plans for the U.K. and think it is likely that less than the planned 16 gigawatts of new nuclear will eventually get built.

Write to Selina Williams at Selina.Williams@dowjones.com 
