Monday, October 29, 2012
Abreva Conceal Patch - Review, Pictures 

I'm here today to talk about something that no one really wants to talk about.

Cold Sores!

Let's face it. One of these days one of you is going to get a cold sore on your lip…and probably at a really inopportune moment…I mean is there ever a "good" time to have a cold sore? And let's face it. No one wants to admit they get cold sores....amirite?  I get them every few years but I used to get them as young as 11 years old and almost 2 or three times a year! It was awful.  Back then, there was no treatment for them that I knew of.  Thankfully there are plenty of prescription and OTC treatments.  But what do you do about the ugly spot that is left behind while it's healing?   Well the people at Abreva have developed a clear non-medicated patch for cold sores that allows air in, yet is protective enough to keep contaminants out. This little miracle worker is called Abreva Conceal.

I haven't had a cold sore in a while so I decided to write a comic about what would happen if I did.  You can call this Abreva Conceal Man Action Comics # 1. This is going to be worth millions in like 70 years!

Unfortunately you might not have Abreva Conceal Man coming to your rescue, so you will have to go buy a package of 6 or 12 and then follow these simple steps.

1. Wash your face with a mild soap, and use a fresh towel to pat your cold sore and the neighboring area dry.

2. Open Conceal packaging and remove the contents inside.

3. Peel back the paper tab marked in red with the number “1” (avoid touching the sticky part underneath by holding on to the small rectangular tab). 

4. Continue to hold the rectangular tab and peel back the other paper tab, marked in blue with the number “2”.

5. While looking in a mirror, place the round patch over the cold sore.

6. Press down lightly on the center of the patch and hold the patch in place for 15-20 seconds to make sure it sticks to on top of your cold sore.

7. Gently pull away the applicator tab, at a slight angle away from your face. Voila! Conceal is in place.

8. Apply makeup on top of Conceal to ensure that the cold sore blends in with the rest of your lips.

You can also see more information and application tips HERE.

Here are some helpful tips when applying make-up over Abreva Conceal:

    Liquid concealer, or a liquid spot treatment, works well over Abreva Conceal. Stick concealers also work but be sure to use a concealer brush for application.
    Liquid or powder foundation can be applied on top of Abreva Conceal. Powder foundation may need a bit of liquid concealer on the patch to adhere to the Abreva Conceal Patch.  You can also try applying foundation in place of concealer. If, for some  reason, your foundation appears too light on top of the Abreva Conceal patch, try a little matte bronzer on top of the foundation to blend with your skin tone.
    Lip gloss looks really great over Abreva Conceal. The shiny finish does well to mask the satin finish of the Abreva Conceal patch.
    Lipstick of almost any kind can also cover the Abreva Conceal patch but be careful when applying over the patch as you don't want to tug on the patch and move it. It is best to apply lipstick using a lip brush and not directly from the tube. It also looks great when you finish the lipstick with a touch of tinted gloss.
    Lip liner can be applied but you must be VERY gentle when applying on top of the Abreva Conceal patch.


My personal experience using the Abreva Conceal Patch:

    The patch was kind of difficult to apply at first. I didn't press it into the skin long enough and/or the area wasn't dry enough when I first tried it.  Thankfully tho, I did get the hang of it.  The patch is incredibly thin, so you really do have to master the application technique to make this look natural.
    I did not wear the Abreva Conceal patch for 8 hours at a time so I have no idea if it lasts that long. I do know that it lasts at least a few hours. You might need to replace it if you eat or drink while wearing the patch, if any sort of moisture gets in contact with the patch, or if you have VERY oily skin, like me.
    Make sure that your patch is sealed all around the edges with no folds or ripples before applying foundation or concealer.  If you do this it will allow the patch to wear for longer periods of time. If some foundation gets under the patch it will dislodge the patch and will no longer be able to keep contaminants out or keep the patch on your skin. I didn't do this at first and the patch lifted off after just a few minutes.

Things to remember:

    The Abreva Conceal Patch is NON-MEDICATED and is not a treatment for a cold sore.  
    You cannot use the Abreva creme for treating a cold sore in conjunction with wearing the Abreva Conceal patch.  
    You should ALWAYS see your doctor for treatment if you develop a cold sore or before using any new over the counter treatments for cold sores.
    For any cosmetics you use with the Abreva Conceal patch, make sure to dispense some onto the back of your hand so as to not contaminate the source product. 
    Do not apply lip gloss straight from the tube when wearing the Abreva Conceal patch or when you have a cold sore. (The image above was taken for editorial purposes only.)


The Abreva Conceal patch retails for approximately $12 for a 6 pack and $17 for a 12 pack of patches. You can find them at your local pharmacy, drugstore.com, or grocery store.

Abreva Conceal is a clean, non-medicated patch for cold sores that allows air in, yet protective enough to keep contaminants out.

Disclosure: Compensation was provided by Abreva via Glam Media.  The opinions expressed herein are those of the author and are not indicative of the opinions or positions of Abreva.

This post is designed for educational purposes only and should not be used in any other manner. This information is not intended to substitute for informed medical advice. You should not use this information to diagnose or treat a health problem or disease without consulting with a qualified health care provider. A consultation with your health care professional is the proper method to address your health concerns. You are encouraged to consult your health care provider with any questions or concerns you may have regarding your condition. Rapid advances in medicine may cause information contained here to become outdated, invalid or subject to debate. Accuracy cannot be guaranteed. The Pink Sith Blog assumes no responsibility for how information presented here or on the following links is used by the public. 



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Kiss and Make-upOctober 22, 2012 10:46 AM

Lol, you are so hilarious :-D AND informative, too, you really have it all ;-)

Ashley KOctober 22, 2012 12:12 PM

Very interesting and also your graphics for the abreva man are awesome! ;)

LeahOctober 22, 2012 12:44 PM

Does it make you feel like your cold sore is protected also? I know my mom's biggest problem is being scared anything will touch it.

Also what nail polish are you wearing? Such a lovely duochrome!

fieryredhead686October 22, 2012 1:23 PM

When it came off/you removed it, did it take any of the cold sore skin with it? Thanks so much for posting about these!

