October 26, 2012, 6:00 am
If Primary-Care Doctors Were Taxed Like Hedge-Fund Managers
By UWE E. REINHARDT

Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field.

“Advancing Primary Care” was the sole focus of the latest report by the Council on Graduate Medical Education, whose mandate is to assess the current and future health work-force situation and make recommendations to the federal government. The problem has long been how to get this done.

To entice a higher than the current fraction of medical-school graduates into primary-care practice requires a solid understanding what factors influence the choice of a medical specialty as a career.

Among the nonpecuniary factors that have been identified are the medical students’ personal characteristics, their socioeconomic background, whether they grew up in rural or urban settings, the professional prestige that faculty advisers and society at large appear to accord different specialties and, of increasing importance in recent years, the life styles that different specialties imply – that is, the leisure time available for family and personal control over work hours.

It is difficult, perhaps even impossible, to manipulate these nonpecuniary factors significantly through public policy. Much easier to manipulate are the purely economic prospects implied by the choice of a specialty – that is, the rate of return on their investment in medical education that medical students can expect from practice in different specialties. Along with prospective life style, that economic dimension of specialty choice has been found to be influential.

In an earlier post, I described the “human capital” approach to occupational choice, replete with graphic illustrations of the model. In that model both a student’s investment in the choice of a particular profession and the financial returns from that choice are calculated as differential flows against a baseline net-income stream that could be expected by the student from an alternative career that began with only a bachelor’s degree.

Thus, the total amount of money invested in becoming a particular medical specialist has two components: (1) the income forgone by training to become a physician in a given specialty, that is, the income that would have been earned during the years of the physician’s education and training in the baseline occupation, and (2) additional cash outlays for tuition and other fees. The investment does not include the cost of housing and food, because they would have been incurred in any case.

Similarly, the return stream to this investment is the expected income stream the physician can expect from practicing in the chosen medical specialty minus the income stream that would have been earned in those practice years in the alternative baseline occupation.

Public policy can try to influence the choice of medical specialties through the economics of that choice either by reducing the cost of investing to enter that specialty or enhancing the future income stream from practice in that specialty, or by doing both.

Either or both would increase the rate of return the physician earns on the sizable investment in becoming a medical practitioner.

For students signaling an intention to practice in primary care, public policy could lower the cost of investing in such a career by reducing or even eliminating tuition and fees for attending medical school, as some policy analysts have proposed. I criticized that idea in an earlier post, because taxpayers might end up subsidizing some medical students who ultimately decide not to specialize in primary care after all.

A more effective method of lowering the cost of investing in a primary-care career is to charge all medical students full tuition and to lend students the funds for it at reasonable interest rates – and then to forgive sizable fractions of the student’s accumulated debt for each year of full-time practice in a designated primary-care specialty (or in a geographic location) thought to experience a shortage.

Several programs of this nature already exist, most prominent among them the Loan Repayment program of the National Health Service Corps, which was established by Congress in 1972. The program, which so far has been kept relatively small by Congress, could be vastly enlarged to address the entire primary-care shortage head on.

The income stream earned by practicing in a medical specialty could be enhanced in one of two ways.

First, the fees paid for primary-care services or the salaries paid primary-care physicians could be significantly increased to the point that current and future medical graduates would be aware of them. In principle, this seems easy; in practice, it has proven much harder, for reasons whose exploration warrants a post in their own right.

If raising primary-care fees or salaries turns out to be too difficult, an easier alternative might be to enhance the future income stream of primary-care physicians through the federal income-tax code by taxing the practice income of full-time primary-care physicians at the same low rate now accorded the managers of private-equity and hedge funds on certain portions of their income.

The managers of private-equity and hedge-funds are typically paid a performance bonus called carried interest by other investors in the funds. The bonus is earned if the funds under management yield a return above a certain minimum level (e.g., full preservation of invested capital plus 8 percent).

Although carried interest is not a long-term capital gain on the fund managers’ own investment in the funds they manage, carried interest is taxed at the low capital-gains rate (currently 15 percent), rather than the ordinary-income tax rate (currently 35 percent plus payroll taxes) that would apply to similar performance-based bonuses in other industries (e.g., sales commissions), cash bonuses paid executives for performance or to, say, the income earned by physicians.

While economists, including Gregory Mankiw of Harvard, can be found valiantly trying to defend this practice (though Professor Mankiw sometimes seems to support the opposite view), probably most others, including myself and my fellow Economix blogger Bruce Bartlett, take the opposite view.

As long as this tax preference accorded private-equity and hedge-fund managers remains on the books – presumably because they are deemed precious and important to our country – why doesn’t Congress treat full-time primary-care physicians as equally precious and important? That would show we really are serious about an acute shortage of primary-care physicians.
