October 24, 2012, 12:56 pm
Republican Homes Bounce Back
By FLOYD NORRIS

The uneven recovery in home prices seems to be favoring Republican voters over Democratic ones.

The Federal Housing Finance Agency’s House Price Index reported Wednesday that prices rose 4.7 percent nationally over the 12 months through August. That was the fastest annual pace since 2006.

Averages can be deceiving. In some places prices are still falling, while in others they are rising at a fast clip.

State-by-state figures are available only on a quarterly basis, with the second quarter the most recent one.

Those figures show that prices were above the recession low — defined as the minimum level from 2007 through 2010 — in 33 states. In the other 17 states, prices now are lower than they were at the recession bottom.

The Times lists 18 states as leaning to or solidly for Barack Obama, and 24 states as likely or certain to back Mitt Romney, with eight states viewed as tossups.

Home prices have recovered from the lows of the crisis in 22 of the 24 Republican states, the exceptions being North and South Carolina.

But prices are below the crisis lows in 12 of the 18 Democratic states. They are up at least a little bit in California, Oregon, Maryland, Vermont, Michigan and Hawaii.

Of the eight tossup states, prices are above the crisis low in five of the states (Colorado, Virginia, Florida, Iowa and Ohio) and below that level in three states (New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Nevada).

If you assume that the tossup states with prices that have recovered will back Mr. Romney, along with all the states listed as leaning Republican, he would have 281 electoral votes, to 257 for Mr. Obama, and would become president.

But if you think that all the states listed as leaning might still switch, and assume they will actually vote with their home prices, that changes the vote in only one state, North Carolina, which has 15 electoral votes. Then Mr. Obama wins with 271 electoral votes, three more than needed.

Does this make any sense? Perhaps. Mr. Romney has called for relying on the market to solve the crisis. In states where the market is cooperating, that might seem to be a better prescription than it does in areas where prices are still falling.
