Sandy's financial toll may deal knockout blow to N.J.'s budget

Hurricane Sandy has leveled homes, caused billions of dollars in damage and now may blast a hole in New Jersey’s already fragile budget.

"Your economy grinds to the halt and you have tremendous expenses," Kathleen Blanco, the governor of Louisiana when Hurricane Katrina struck her state in 2005, told The Star-Ledger in a phone interview today. "The state has to look at ways to cover things that the federal government won’t pay for."

Weeks after Katrina, Blanco cut nearly $1 billion — or 14 percent — of spending out of the state’s budget to make up for loss in revenue. Most of the cuts came in Medicaid, which saw savings as residents in the poorest neighborhoods moved to nearby states.

"You have to reprioritize. It was pretty scary," Blanco said. "It was severe, but the citizenry understood the steps we had to take and rallied behind it."

Sandy barreled through the New Jersey Monday night and early Tuesday, leaving more than more than 2.3 million homes and businesses without power and causing damage expected to be in the billions of dollars, particularly on the barrier islands.

"This is totally unprecedented, so we don’t know what it means to the economy or the budget." said former state Treasurer David Rousseau.

Gov. Chris Christie on Tuesday dismissed the potential budget fallout from the storm, saying President Obama’s declaration of New Jersey as a "major disaster" will help funnel federal money to individuals, businesses and local governments affected by the storm. He also said private insurance companies will help property owners and businesses rebuild,

The governor noted that if there is added cost to the state, he would cut other areas of the budget.

Blanco and others said the increased federal spending and the reconstruction of devastated areas can in time bolster the state budget much like the federal government’s stimulus efforts did.

Jan Moller, Director Louisiana Budget Project, noted that state spending grew by 30 percent in the years that followed Katrina, buoyed by a surge in economic activity. But Blanco cautioned it’s short-lived, saying "states should not believe that those tax revenues are going to last forever."

Christie’s ambitious $31.7 billion budget for the current fiscal year is already strained by disappointing revenue collections and higher-than-expected rises in Medicaid and unemployment costs. Revenues grew modestly in the first three months of the fiscal year that began in July but are $175 million, or 4 percent, less than Christie projected. Revenue would have to grow more than 10 percent in the remaining months for Christie to hit his targets.

When Hurricane Irene hit New Jersey last summer, revenues dipped below expectations and State Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff blamed it on the "severe weather."

"Trying to predict what the revenues are going to be for the rest of the year is going to be near impossible," Rousseau said. "The shore region is a major revenue generator in the summer months, and seeing the pictures on television I don’t see how they are going to be back in the summer."

The biggest shortfall so far this fiscal year has been in sales tax collections, which fell nearly 7 percent short of Christie’s projections. In the wake of Irene last year, the sales tax took the biggest hit.

Blanco encouraged Christie and the region’s other governors to pursue a unified effort for federal funding instead of a go-it-alone approach that would pit one against another. She said the states share resources, like bridges, railways and subways, so cooperation makes sense. "These are multi-state problems, so they need multi-state solutions," she said. 

Selecting what public infrastructure projects to invest in is tricky, but Blanco said the governors need to focus on the ones that generate the most economic activity. She noted that she took much criticism for rebuilding the Superdome in New Orleans, but she stands by her decision.

"When the Saints played there, it provided a real psychological boost," she said. "It really provided momentum."

She said small businesses, the backbone of the economy, were particularly hard hit in her state. She provided a loan fund to help keep them afloat, "but some will never come back."

Blanco has reached out to Christie to offer her support,

"I want to tell him he can call me as problems arise," she said. "We have a lot of universal issues to talk about. The psychology of recovery is very important."
