
Bloomberg's Obama endorsement is a vote for big government in time of crisis

After Sandy, endorsing Obama counts not because we care what he thinks, but because of what New York's mayor is getting done


Barack Obama and Michael Bloomberg in 2008. Photograph: Diane Bondareff/AP

It would be weird if Hurricane Sandy didn't play a role in New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg's endorsement of Obama. In an ideal world, Sandy would play a role in everyone's decision about who to support for president, including those who already voiced a preference. (Confidential to Heavy-Hearted in NJ: it's not too late!)

As with many issues close to the hearts of progressives, Obama has not been as decisive and legislatively active regarding climate change as they would like. It's not even clear he could do more – so much depends on a cooperative Congress. But at least, he continues to acknowledge that the problem exists. Mitt Romney can only be counted on to move whichever way the wind blows, not questioning too deeply if it carries greenhouse gases with it.

Bloomberg didn't cite climate change alone, of course. He laid out a brief list of issues – including reproductive rights and marriage equality – any one of which would strike a chord with independent voters who aren't, you know, still primarily concerned with keeping their jobs and paying their bills.

Sandy has pushed off the splash-page a lot of what the presidential campaigns had been focusing on. For actual voters, however, Sandy's aftermath has only driven home the precariousness of their economic, and even physical, safety.

With these concerns at the forefront of their minds, Bloomberg's reasons for endorsing Obama matter less to swing voters than the fact of it. On Twitter, political know-it-alls dismissed the mayor weighing in as an ineffectual gesture by an east coast elite with sarcasm along the lines of "I'd been waiting for the New York billionaire to tell me what to do!" (Of course, for some reason, we're still paying attention to Donald Trump.)

Yet, Bloomberg's turn to Obama – even his decision to make an endorsement at all – matters because his wealth and location are details compared to his reputation for getting things done. If he sometimes uses his power to accomplish things that people don't necessarily want, like "big soda" bans, I wonder if, in this time of national political gridlock, Bloomberg's affection for the nanny state isn't as important as his animation of it.

If there was a time for government-as-helicopter-parent, it's now. We can rebel later, when the lights come back on.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





    rusticred

    1 November 2012 9:37PM

    Who needs small government Sandy has busted open the climate debate as well as role of Govt. This was the October surprise.
        
        
        
        

    IanCW

    1 November 2012 9:48PM

    And yet he still found the opportunity to have a dig at teachers unions, a cry for bipartisanship (i.e, New England Republicanism which is all but dead and buried) and to throw in a mild accusation of class warfare while he was at it.

    Basically, Bloomberg knows which horse will win the race and is betting accordingly.
        
        
        
        

    Alishia Mason

    1 November 2012 9:58PM

    Either way~ I liked the article, it was a 'good read'.. And Mayor Bloomberg won my heart a long time ago!! He is definitely a great leader, in times of total devastation he manages to clean up the mess..
               
        
        

    CraigSummers

    1 November 2012 9:59PM

    Ms. Cox

    ".....But at least, he continues to acknowledge that the problem exists. Mitt Romney can only be counted on to move whichever way the wind blows, not questioning too deeply if it carries greenhouse gases with it...."

    Two columns in a row devoted to an issue no one really even cares about, Ms Cox. It seems that you are looking for a defining issue besides the state of the economy to separate the two candidates. Climate change as a campaign issue is dead in this election. In fact, it's never been an issue in any American election - even in good times.

    Most Americans can't see establishing more controls on American industry driving more companies overseas. Going green only drives down world energy demand lowering energy prices for the Chinese - our competitors - while we subsidize (pay more) for "green" energy. Our children will pay more for everything lowering our standard of living. That seems a little ridiculous, doesn't it? Who wants to go that route?

    If I may, I will answer the question. Far left wing enviro-wackos and other kooks who hate capitalism and believe that government drives the economy. Of course, they are right - negatively. Most Independents don't give two hoots in hell about global warming. Global warming will have about as much of an affect on this election as another massive earthquake in Haiti. None. Zero. Zip.
               
        

    CitizenCarrier

    1 November 2012 10:16PM

        Bloomberg's Obama endorsement is a vote for big government in time of crisis

    Um, yeah, but a lot of what Obama is saying he's doing is ordering the people under him to waive regulations and red tape and bureaucracy in order to just get things done.

    THAT is NOT an endorsement of Big Government. That is tacit acknowledgement that when government functions the way he usually wants it to, it is something that gets in the way and slows things down.

    "My message to the federal government: no bureaucracy, no red tape. Get resources where they are needed as fast as possible, as hard as possible, and for the duration."
    --Barack Obama

    Hey, Genius, do you think that might have been good orders to give say, about 15 FRIGGIN' MINUTES after you were sworn in back in 2008?

    Do you think that might have been a useful way to spark an economic recovery instead of passing 633 new regulations in like your first year in office? You know, like NOT saddling the private sector with new rules and regulations and an increasingly Machiavellian EPA to stifle economic activity?

    Barack Obama isn't showcasing efficiency and leadership. He's admitting that business as usual is a nightmarish mess that gets in the way of getting things done.

    And gasoline refineries in the south are being given permission to ignore "seasonal formula" gasoline and just crank the stuff out so it can be rushed to the east coast.

    Hey, Genius, once again...why didn't you give that order about 15 minutes after being sworn in too? You know, so American consumers can have more money to spend on durable goods and houses and vacations and groceries instead of burning their cash up in their gas tanks because of your stupid regulations.

    Once we'd have gotten back down to 5% unemployment (or better) then we could think about easing the regulations back into place. Well, just the ones that absolutely, positively make sense.
        
        
        
        

    ozzieb

    1 November 2012 10:16PM

    The rich suffer the most that's why they are so desperate. Suffering is in the mind. Pain, well that's something the poor ignore.
        
        
        
        

    1crossstreet

    1 November 2012 10:19PM

    100 hours and counting. Will Hurricane Sandy be followed by another American Spring?
        
        
        
        

    KevinNevada

    1 November 2012 10:22PM
    Response to CraigSummers, 1 November 2012 9:59PM

    The underlying basis of your entire comment seems to be that climate change is not happening, or at least that humans are not driving it. Or, at least, that if Americans are ignoring it, it must not be 'real'.

    You also assume, as do most confused "conservatives", that the only measures available to deal with climate change will be destructive to our economy. There are many things we could be doing, to deal with climate change that could work the other way, to create new wealth and new knowledge.

    But if you are stuck in the name-calling mode of "far left wing enviro-wackos and other kooks who hate capitalism", then a rational discussion becomes impossible. Most of the so-called "conservative" side of our political world is stuck in that dead-end mind-set, or at least conforming to it.

    My own view is that climate change is the wealth creation and business development opportunity of the century. We need to close the loop, and remove all that surplus CO2 (freeing the oxygen, of course), and then find many uses for that pure carbon.

    There are advances in materials science going on, right now that could make pure carbon one of the most valuable of all industrial feedstocks.

    And all the CO2 is flying around free, for the taking. Legally, it resides in the "commons", owned by none, available to all.

    The way forward is for business and government to cooperate on this great venture. The US "conservatives" are stuck in this witless "government is BAD BAD BAD" mindset, an attitude that betrays the historical basis of the Republican Party. It is the idiocy of Ayn Rand, run rampant.

    Real conservatism should be interested in preserving this wonderful planet. Teddy Roosevelt understood this, clearly. The modern GOP is immune to such wisdom.
                
        
        

    ArseneKnows

    1 November 2012 10:24PM
    Response to CitizenCarrier, 1 November 2012 10:16PM

    The real reason that things get done during emergencies is that the neanderthals and those in the pockets of the Koch brothers don't have a veto.
    The last time Cheney and Rove were near the levers of power you ended up with thousands of dead US military and hundreds of thousands of dead men, women and children across the middle-east - who are the people behind Romney's largest fundraising concerns?
                
        
        

    gwpriester

    1 November 2012 10:33PM

    People can dismiss global warming, climate change, call it what you want, but it's a very real issue that is not going to go away.

    So you can elect a President who says, the jury's still out on this issue, or a President who at least acknowledges the problem is a very real issue and is trying to do something about it.

    I am not thrilled with President Obama's leadership on this issue. But at least he is not dismissing global warming as a hoax being practiced on the American people (not to mention on every person on the planet).

    The republicans have made their stand very clear. Global warming is a bunch of rubbish and protecting the energy and petroleum industry profits, at whatever cost is job one.

    One only hopes there is such a thing as a day of reckoning when these expedient, shortsighted republicans, and a few democrats as well, will have to explain how they did nothing to protect the planet.
        
        
        
        

    9milerancher

    1 November 2012 10:40PM

        Bloomberg's Obama endorsement is a vote for big government in time of crisis

    A vote that surprises no-one.
    But, the expressed sentiment does provide some insight into the insularity of the Northeast-liberal bubble.
    Come Wednesday morning, either I'll be wrong(with no major consequence) or a vast array of pundits will be in total shock. The very idea that Sandy, President Obama's response to the storm or Bloomberg's endorsement will alter the voting dynamic is utterly ridiculous and is quite insulting to every voter.
    Nearly four years of Mr. Obama's presidency upon which to judge his worthiness and the final weather event of his tenure is the deciding factor? Not effin hardly! The countenancing of the notion that citizens outside of the northeast corridor are so fickle as to give one rat's ass about Bloomberg, his endorsement or the President's Sandy photo-ops reveals that Ms. Cox and her punditry brethren(the headline on Michael Tomasky's article relative to Bloomberg: Game, set . . .) are so far removed from the pulse of the nation's voters as to be dwelling in an entirely, and I mean an entirely, different weltanschauung.
    I shouldn't be, but I am - I am just dumbstruck by the attitude displayed by people like Ms. Cox; people who actually believe the rest of the country(and world, for that matter) have adopted an inside-the-beltway belief in the almighty power of the political class to hold sway over matters of opinion.
    Ms. Cox: come late Tuesday night you're going to realize all that you know simply . . . isn't. You haven't a freakin clue. You haven't one iota of insight into the opinions of common folk. Good lord, the detachment from reality is so graphic as to be, almost but not quite, unimagineable.
        
        
        
        

    IanCW

    1 November 2012 10:43PM
    Response to 9milerancher, 1 November 2012 10:40PM

        Ms. Cox: come late Tuesday night you're going to realize all that you know simply . . . isn't. You haven't a freakin clue. You haven't one iota of insight into the opinions of common folk.

    It would take hitherto unknown disaster, blunder on Obama's part or GOP mass fraud for him to lose on Tuesday, unless you want to assume that every single professional measure- and we're talking maths here, not punditry- is incorrect.

    Romney must win Ohio to win this thing, plus a few other big states such as Virginia and Florida. On poll aggregation, he is currently squeaking a lead in Florida alone.

    You're entitled to your own opinion about the candidates, but not your own facts.
                
        
        

    9milerancher

    1 November 2012 10:49PM
    Response to IanCW, 1 November 2012 10:43PM

    We'll see Ian. We'll see.
        
        
        
        

    IanCW

    1 November 2012 10:52PM
    Response to 9milerancher, 1 November 2012 10:49PM

        We'll see Ian. We'll see.

    Its a shame about Graun anonymity. Otherwise we could make it interesting, a la Nate Silver.

    I'm calling Obama to get somewhere between 295-305.
                
        
        

    DammYankee

    1 November 2012 11:17PM

    So the guy who ignored the law of the land to implement things he wants that the people don't necessarily want just endorsed the guy who those who oppose him believe is ignoring the law of the land to implement things he wants that the people don't necessarily want.

    I guess Obama's gonna get a 3rd term as well by getting Congress to ignore the Constitution like Mikey did with the NYC City Charter's two-term limit for the mayoralty (which is ironic since Mikey threw a fit about Giuliani wanting to extend his second term after 9/11 to get the recovery started).
        
        
        
        

    bannedgunner

    1 November 2012 11:43PM
    Response to CitizenCarrier, 1 November 2012 10:16PM

    Connecting unrelated events to make your point again heh?

    This "My message to the federal government: no bureaucracy, no red tape. Get resources where they are needed as fast as possible, as hard as possible, and for the duration"

    has nothing to do with this

    "Do you think that might have been a useful way to spark an economic recovery instead of passing 633 new regulations in like your first year in office?"

    Much of those "633" regulation had to do with the way Wall street does business.
    Those guys who needed a big bail out.


    "And gasoline refineries in the south are being given permission to ignore "seasonal formula" gasoline and just crank the stuff out so it can be rushed to the east coast.

    Hey, Genius, once again...why didn't you give that order about 15 minutes after being sworn in too? You know, so American consumers can have more money to spend on durable goods and houses and vacations and groceries instead of burning their cash up in their gas tanks because of your stupid regulations."

    The petroleum industry has been going through cycles of switching to producing summer to winter grade gasoline for about thirty years. Please go and understand the seasonal formulas used for gasoline before making dumb statements.
               
        
        

    bannedgunner

    1 November 2012 11:52PM
    Response to DammYankee, 1 November 2012 11:17PM

    So the guy who ignored the law of the land to implement things he wants that the people don't necessarily want just endorsed the guy who those who oppose him believe is ignoring the law of the land to implement things he wants that the people don't necessarily want.
    --------------------------------------------------------------------

    Those are some excellent points. Giving things to people who necessarily don't want to be, and ignoring the law that are necessary, and the guy who is doing things that some believe are implementing what has to be ignored
    and Jimbo threw a fit cause he wanted to eat his cake and keep it, while masses were huddled discussing the difference between a yam and a sweet potato. ,
        
        
        
        

    Fulton

    2 November 2012 12:03AM

    A Bloomberg endorsement doesn't amount to a hill of beans. Tomasky had a thoroughly bizarre belief in Bloomberg as a national figure, which I could never figure out why. Christie talking up Obama is more significant in that it pre-emptively undercuts any attempts to get a "Sandy is Obama's Katrina" type story going on Fox. But at this point it's hard to believe there are genuinely a lot of people getting swayed one way or the other in enough numbers to tip the election. It is what it is going to be.

    I still find it hard to believe that Romney is going to blow it, but he's an awful candidate running on behalf of a crazy tunes party, so maybe Obama will survive. In which case the Republicans can blame nobody but themselves for losing an election they should be winning going away.
        
        
        
        

    celsius233

    2 November 2012 12:18AM
    Response to CraigSummers, 1 November 2012 9:59PM

        Most Americans can't see establishing more controls on American industry driving more companies overseas. Going green only drives down world energy demand lowering energy prices for the Chinese - our competitors - while we subsidize (pay more) for "green" energy. Our children will pay more for everything lowering our standard of living. That seems a little ridiculous, doesn't it? Who wants to go that route? 

    Ah. So you'd prefer the route that sees accelerating destruction of the biosphere, and an increasingly inexorable tilt towards the tipping point that will see climate change become an all-but-unstoppable juggernaut that will kill millions, inconvenience billions, and set the course of civilization back by decades at best, millenia at worst? Just for the sake of a bit of short-term economic comfort? Because those are the stakes you're gambling with.

    The infrared adsorption properties of carbon dioxide know nothing about politics, nothing about economics; they just exist. Wiser minds than yours and mine have understood the problem for at least the last 116 years, when Svante Arrhenius (a physical chemist, by the way, not a 'far left wind enviro-wacko' or similar) first proposed a connection between atmospheric CO2 and climate.

    Personally, I don't think Sandy is going to be the event that finally convinces mainstream America of the need to act on climate change, but I think it will inevitably have some effect on the election's outcome. But maybe, just maybe, Sandy will give one of the main parties the gumption to not shy away from climate change as something that needs to be kept in the electorate's attention. Because the consequences of continued inaction on this could, indeed, be utterly devastating, and Sandy is maybe just the start.

    But feel free to pretend otherwise.
        
        
        
        

    celsius233

    2 November 2012 12:22AM
    Response to bannedgunner, 1 November 2012 11:52PM

        Giving things to people who necessarily don't want to be, and ignoring the law that are necessary, and the guy who is doing things that some believe are implementing what has to be ignored
        and Jimbo threw a fit cause he wanted to eat his cake and keep it, while masses were huddled discussing the difference between a yam and a sweet potato.

    I'm sorry, what?

    Seriously, if there were a prize offered for least coherent comment of the day, you'd have the thing in the bag.
        
        
        
        

    IanCW

    2 November 2012 12:39AM
    Response to Fulton, 2 November 2012 12:03AM

        Bloomberg endorsement doesn't amount to a hill of beans. Tomasky had a thoroughly bizarre belief in Bloomberg as a national figure, which I could never figure out why. Christie talking up Obama is more significant in that it pre-emptively undercuts any attempts to get a "Sandy is Obama's Katrina" type story going on Fox. 

    Totes agree. Obama and Christie's bromance will carry far more weight than Bloomberg.

    Bloomberg is appealing to pundits, because like many pundits and editorial boards, he is a rich, urban white guy who is fiscally conservative but socially liberal and pretends to be a centrist so he can appear above the messy fray, when in reality he is a New England Republican from the 90s (or a millenial Virginia Democrat, I suppose). The only thing in Bloomberg's favour is that he's not Brooks or Friedman (but why would he need to be, with a whole media outlet at his disposal, not just an opinion page).

