
Books to understand the future
Published on August 20th, 2012 

I want to bring your attention to this excellent list of books compiled by Charles Hugh Smith, who also writes OfTwoMinds and Survival+ (see this post). Many of these books also form the foundation of my own thinking about the future [and the past and the present].

It also includes the ERE book as shown here in the “ERE library” which is modeled on the Jefferson library. Yes, he had book cases much like this—I built it using [most of] the instructions from Roy Underhill. 

Actually I just wanted to show off the book case I just finished making. It is my first foray into dovetails and this case took about 8 hours to make all combined including squaring off the boards with a block plane and chiseling out the pins and dovetails.

Total cost of materials for the case: $5 or so. And it’ll last for decades unlike disposable nail and pressed board furniture. Whether it deserves to live that long is another matter.

PS: It’s actually intended as a CD case which is why the pins are on the wrong boards for a book case. The plan was to miter the corners like the originals, but I had a hard time with the 3D thinking as it was. Next iteration will include mitered corners [and hopefully tighter dovetails]. 



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





firefighter jeff said,

Good job on the dovetails, but you gotta flush them up to make them look the best. Then after you sand and then stain and then finish with a topcoat the dovetails will really pop on that oak. The hand-cut dovetails look great.
Paula said,

Bully for you for even attempting dovetails by hand. I’d like to try them, but don’t have the patience or time yet. But good for you!
dan said,

Practice is the key to good dovetails, but even bad dovetails will last longer than the junk sold today. A little elmer’s glue and some sawdust mixed together will fill in the little gaps and will take stain/varnish just fine. Don’t ask me how I know that!

Be careful though…woodworking is a slipperly slope and pretty soon you’ll have a lean-to on the side of your RV to house all your tools!
Surio said,

Nice one man. I need to re-address my own crowbar method now. :-)

Yes, I agree with Dan. You That was my case when I was into motorcycle repair…. That was 1996-1998 though…. :o
Jacob said,

@dan – How should the glue/sawdust mixture be? Like thin mud or cake?

The biggest challenge will be where to put the #8 jointer.
rjack said,

Nice dovetails! I should be like mud I think. However, be aware that regular yellow/white wood glue shrinks as it dries. If you have any epoxy, it does not shrink.
dan said,

@Jacob – squueze the glue (or epoxy per rjack) into the gaps and then rub the sawdust into the gap. I usually use the fine sawdust from the bag on the belt sander but I’m sure your dovetail saw will create a proper size of sawdust.

Also, there’s no need for a number 8 jointer, find a good number six which tend to be cheaper due to Patrick Leach’s hatred of the size. He’s sort of the “expert” online regarding Stanley Planes.

@rjack Do you have troubles with stain absorbing when using epoxy?
Paula @ AffordAnything.org said,

Wow, 8 hours to make?

If you enjoy it, then good for you!! I love gardening and — even though it provides me with cheap basil — I don’t consider the hours that I put into it “work,” I consider it “fun.”

But there’s no way I’d spend 8 hours building something I could buy for $30. But that’s only because I dislike building things — saws scare me.

