Melbourne Cup day: Check yourself before you wreck yourself 

FOR many of us, Melbourne Cup means champagne, hats and office sweepstakes.

But experts say the day can easily turn south for both bosses and their employees if the festivities are not kept in check.

Employment law specialist Joydeep Hor says drinking in the office and unclear rules around returning to work create problems for managers on Melbourne Cup every year.

“Issues have arisen in the past for some of our clients if staff assume they have the rest of the afternoon off when in fact they are required in the office,” said Mr Hor, head of law firm People and Culture Strategies.

“There is a lot of misunderstanding about what traditions are or aren’t and there’s a lot of liberties taken over the idea that ‘It’s what we’ve always done’.”

Have you ever had to keep working while colleagues partied on Cup day? Or have you witnessed something inappropriate in the office during festivities? Leave a comment below.

Mr Hor said managers have to be very clear about what is expected of staff, particularly if there’s an expectation they return to their duties.

And while most employers have clear policies that staff shouldn’t consume alcohol on work time, many people will have drinks at a work lunch or a glass of champagne in the office.

“The danger is that people will act in a manner that’s a lot more relaxed or inappropriate if they’ve had alcohol,” he said.

“It’s just an unusual day and once the alcohol starts kicking in you just need to be circumspect.

“It’s outdoors and it’s a hot day and there’s build up from the morning and the excitement from the gambling.”

Mr Hor said there were dangers of sexual harassment incidents after festivities formally finish, or the disclosure of confidential information while people are under the influence of alcohol.

“There are also other forms of abuse at management, people might have a slip of the tongue.”

There was also a risk people would post inappropriate photos or tweets on social media sites, he said.

“I don’t think there’s been a single year where arising out of Melbourne Cup there hasn’t been some sort of fall out,” Mr Hor said.

“People have lost their jobs because of it.”

Mr Hor said there should be clear guidelines that apply across the entire office, in order to ensure staff don’t feel left out or resentful.

“Otherwise you get people thinking ‘that person’s more fun to work for because their team don’t have to go back to work’.”

Mr Hor added that, conversely, some employees may not wish to participate in elements of Melbourne Cup - particularly gambling and drinking alcohol - due to religious or family values or simply because they’re not interested.

“If they choose or express a desire not to participate in these things, they shouldn’t be ridiculed, mocked or accused of being ‘unaustralian’,” he said.

“Employers need to ensure they provide options for staff who may not wish to participate in race day celebrations.”
