Lashings of fun as Famous Five make TV comeback

WITH their tales of secret dens, scraped knees and lashings of ginger beer, they seem sadly distant from the sedentary lives of today's children.

But rather than being forgotten, the likes of the Famous Five and Topsy & Tim are to be revived on television for a new generation.

The producers say that as children spend more and more time inside, rather than going out to play, there is an increasing "demand for adventure stories".

Enid Blyton’s Famous Five books are being developed into a drama series by renowned independent producer Kindle Entertainment, with sources at both Sky and the BBC saying they are interested.

CBeebies will broadcast an adaptation of the much-loved 1960s series Topsy & Tim, as well as a CGI version of Beatrix Potter’s The Tale of Peter Rabbit.

And CBBC will show another series of Dennis and Gnasher, its popular animation based on the antics of Dennis the Menace in The Beano.

Melanie Stokes, director at Kindle Entertainment, said: "The Famous Five stories are part of British heritage - parents, grandparents perhaps even great grandparents know these stories and there is a nostalgia when they sit down to watch with their children.

"For kids these are great new stories. At a time when their worlds are actually shrinking and less children get out and play, the appeal for the Famous Five to be revived is that it shows how much fun it was to roam free. It shows children having an awesome adventure."

The producers are developing 26 episodes based on the 21 Blyton books, but will update the scenarios to appeal to modern viewers. They were most recently turned into a television series in the 1990s.

A BBC drama source said the corporation was looking for a "youth adventure series" and was "very interested", but it is understood Sky is also keen on the idea.

The Topsy & Tim books, written by Jean and Gareth Adamson, were first published in 1960. They follow young twins experiencing day-to-day adventures for the first time, such as visiting the dentist and going to school.

There are 130 titles in the series, which have sold more than 21million copies worldwide. Maddy Darrall, co-founder of Darrall Macqueen, the firm producing Topsy & Tim, said it would be a "live action" drama series rather than an animation - the first ever shown on CBeebies.

She explained: "Topsy and Tim still reflects the concerns of ordinary British family life as much they did in the 1960s.

"Children still get excited by and worry about similar things as they did when I was growing up - making friends, exploring, first day at school, moving house.

"Not a lot of modern stories tackle that “first time” experience for children today. There is something too about sharing stories that you as parents or grandparents enjoyed."

The first episode of the CGI Peter Rabbit series, a partnership between Nickleodeon and producers Silvergate Media, will broadcast this Christmas on CBeebies.

And the fourth series of Dennis and Gnasher, produced by Red Kite Animation, is set for broadcast on CBBC next year.
