Breastfeeding mum faces tough critics 

BYRON Bay mother Maha al Musa has picked up where American mother Jamie Lynne Grumet left off in the battle of the breastfeed and it seems she's got some tough critics.

50-year-old Al Musa has boldly posed breastfeeding her four-year-old daughter in this month’s edition of Woman's Day Magazine, reasoning that her breast milk is a boost to her youngster’s immune system.

“It’s OK to follow your instincts. Be proud of your womanliness and your ability to breastfeed your child,” she said.

More than 5000 people voted in the news.com.au reader poll yesterday, and nearly 50 per cent agreed with the Government’s advisory that infants should be breastfed until six months of age and continued until 12 months with the introduction of solids.



    Mum proud to still breastfeed her 4-year-old daughter
    Majority say breastfeeding should stop at 6 months to a year
    Read all the comments

breastfeeding was shifting from the child to the mother.

“I'm all for breastfeeding but this 'breastfeeding pride' is using our children. These children may not want a picture of them sucking away all over the world when they are adults. Selfish, selfish, selfish,” wrote et of tsv.

More disturbing to some readers was the fact Al Musa was letting her four-year-old “decide when to be weaned".

“Good grief - why can't these women see that breastfeeding a child that has had teeth for 3.5 years is not natural,” wrote Enough is enough.

“My feeling - they do it because of their own abnormal ability to detach from the child and this cannot be normal either…I breastfed too but for 6 months only and my children are normal, kind, mature, affectionate and independent adults.”

But Al Musa is not alone in her beliefs, with 10 per cent believing mums should stop breastfeeding at three years and over, citing the World Health Organisation's recommendation.

“I think it's beautiful," wrote Anonymous of Brisbane.
 
“I breastfed my boy until almost 3. I would have fed longer but I had to wean him so I could go on a trip overseas for business.

“He is extremely healthy and as normal as any other boy his age. I still miss those breast feeding moments and my son and I share an extreme closeness that I hope will continue for life.”

Jamie Lynne Grumet, who famously featured on the cover of TIME Magazine breastfeeding her three-year-old, has now spoken out against her regret over the cover and article.

“Our intentions were to help relieve the stigma attached to breast-feeding past infancy. The photo I saw wasn’t one that we were trying to pose for.”
