The Wrong Pickup

Posted by Ree in Pioneer Woman

In our small town, it’s customary to trick-or-treat a night or two before Halloween. I’m not sure when this practice began, but it often helps avoid a conflict with Wednesday night church or Friday night football, and it’s actually kind of nice to get to do it early.

Every year since Marlboro Man and I began procreating, we’ve gone trick-or-treating in town. Through the years, we’ve met up with Tim, Missy, and their kids as well as Hyacinth, her husband and their kids, and we’ve walked the grid of streets with babies on our hips and toddlers in wagons and supervised the kids hitting up our fellow residents for as much candy as they can get.

For the first time ever, Marlboro Man and I actually turned our kids loose this year and let them trick-or-treat unsupervised. This greatly pained me, and I told him that we had to have another baby immediately for one reason and one reason only: I simply can not bear the thought of not struggling to haul a child (or keep track of a child) on Halloween. I can not bear the thought of not having a little pookie bear three-year-old dressed up as an elephant or a little girl dressed up as Jeff Gordon and riding around in a red wagon or feeling utterly exhausted at the end of the night because I’ve done everything I can to keep track of four children traipsing around the neighborhood while also periodically stealing their Twix bars and Milky Ways. Waaaaaaah!

It’s as good a reason to have a baby as any other I’ve heard.

Anyway, what Marlboro Man and I did was, we went to Hyacinth’s house, got all the kids together…then sent them all on their merry way. I told them all to be nice and polite and to stick together, then I waved goodbye as the goblins took off down the street. Then I started crying and clutching my womb. Oh, it hurt. It hurt so acutely.

Marlboro Man and I then wound up sitting at Hyacinth’s kitchen island and the four of us ate chili and tortilla chips and talked about everything under the sun, and eventually the kids made their way back in one piece and it was time for us to go. The kids and Marlboro Man said goodbye and exited Hyacinth’s house and were a few paces ahead of me because I was still cutting up with Hyacinth, so when I walked out of the house and headed toward the side street where Marlboro Man’s pickup was parked, I was alone. As I walked along, I was thinking about lots of different things, among them that I couldn’t wait to dive into the kids’ candy, that I needed to pace myself so that it took awhile before any one kid realized I was tapping into their supply, and that I hoped it had been a good year for Twizzlers. Deep in thought, I finally reached the passenger door of the pickup, opened it, and almost began to get in.

“Um…ma’am?” a male voice called out from the other side of the pickup.

Turns out, there were a few pickups parked on the side street that night. I’d simply picked the wrong one.

The thing is, I had a disproportionate reaction. Where most people would have said, “Well, ha! How funny—wrong pickup. Sorry!” and gone on to get into the correct vehicle, I shrieked, shouted, “Oh my gosh!” and took off running. I ran and ran and ran until I couldn’t run anymore, and when I stopped running approximately eight yards later, I saw Marlboro Man’s pickup. He and the kids were sitting inside, waiting for me.

I jumped in the car breathless and panting and cried, “I almost got in the wrong pickup!”

Marlboro Man just sort of looked at me, the usual puzzled expression on his face.

I relayed to him what had just happened, ending with “…And I was almost kidnapped!”

“Actually…you almost kidnapped yourself,” Marlboro Man pointed out, which made a lot more sense.

“Yeah, well…either way, it was a close call,” I said, wiping the sweat off my brow.

We drove away in silence.

What I think I’m trying to say is, I think I’ll wait awhile before having another baby.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS






Lora Lee On Thursday, November 1 at 2:57 pm

Too funny! I can bet your kids rolled their eyes at that one, too! (Mine always do…)
	
CArolyn On Friday, November 2 at 10:44 am

I wish I was back in the eye rolling stage with my sons. I blinked my eyes and they are grown men.
Ree, your niece looks just like her Mama!


Mary Jane On Thursday, November 1 at 2:58 pm

Sounds like you had a VeRy interesting Halloween Ree! :o )
	


Mary On Thursday, November 1 at 2:58 pm

You’re a hoot girl! :)
	


Cheryl On Thursday, November 1 at 2:58 pm

Completely understandable…..the baby that is.
	


Renae Glennon On Thursday, November 1 at 3:00 pm

My Mom has done that in a pharmacy parking lot. But we weren’t 8 yards away. We were right in the next spot and all laughing till we wet ourselves. My Mom just looked over and waved at us. Then had to apologise profusely to the poor older gentleman who thought he was being kidnapped while waiting for his wife. Thanks for the memories.
	
txtigi On Friday, November 2 at 8:25 am

That’s hilarious!!!!…..I may be your mother!


Annie (MD) On Thursday, November 1 at 3:03 pm

You are so funny Ree. You always make me smile. LOL
	


Maratha MOM On Thursday, November 1 at 3:03 pm

Ree… I love you! You are so hilarious!!! Seriously Funny! and very entertaining!
Thank you!!!
	
Martha MOM On Thursday, November 1 at 3:05 pm

Yes.. I misspelled my own name!
Sonya On Thursday, November 1 at 4:06 pm

Too funny. I would have acted like I did it on purpose. Thanks for the laugh.


Kim of The Made Thing On Thursday, November 1 at 3:04 pm

I never know what to do when little kids do this same thing except with my hand or leg, thinking I’m their mom instead of their actual mom! They always look so upset, like I’m some crazy scary lady and am about to kidnap them from the safety of their family net. And then I feel bad! But it’s what your husband says, they’re doing it to themselves.
	
Leah H. On Friday, November 2 at 1:32 pm

Oh, I simultaneously love/hate when little kids think I’m their Mom!

I taught this little boy in Bible class, and he liked me enough, I guess.

One day, he just ran up to me and threw his arms around my legs and looked up at me, beaming, and my heart swelled up with warmth and joy (he misses me!) only to see his countance fall, his arms release their cute little grip and look upward and elsewhere for his actual Mom.

I can’t wait to be an actual Mom!


Christina @ Homemade Ocean On Thursday, November 1 at 3:05 pm

I know I tell you this every day….but you really do crack me up!
	


Simple Girl On Thursday, November 1 at 3:08 pm

I’m glad I’m not the only one losing my mind! :-)
	


Cheryl Barker On Thursday, November 1 at 3:09 pm

So glad you weren’t kidnapped, Ree! :)
	


Amy On Thursday, November 1 at 3:10 pm

Now, that is hysterical. Right up there with the doughnut case. Love the Halloween pictures. My kids have to wait until Monday here in NJ. The Governor postponed the holiday while we recover from Sandy. Unfortunately, this means I’m looking at this Halloween candy for another four days.
http://amysreallife.wordpress.com
	


Arnebya On Thursday, November 1 at 3:10 pm

You almost kidnapped yourself. I JUST SCREAMED LAUGHING!

An older gentleman, about 80 or so, climbed into our truck years ago and he was hard of hearing so my husband saying, “Sir, Sir, um, Sir?” was falling on semi-deaf ears. Once the man realized it though (and halfway into the seat), he just smiled and said, “You have a gorgeous family, young man.” I was behind him and climbed on in as he walked across the parking lot to an identical Explorer.

I am NOT saying you have near-deaf old man nonpayingattention tendencies, though. Nope. Not saying that at all.
	
Toni E On Thursday, November 1 at 8:01 pm

Same reaction for me! Good golly!


Bob's Wife On Thursday, November 1 at 3:11 pm

….No…have another baby!…First of all you make cute ones!…and second, I just started following you because of your cooking show…and I would love to see you with a big tummy…and your beautiful glow…not that you don’t glow already..but a baby…ohh!!…I could come out to the ranch..and help you..like the housekeepers on the Real Housewifes!….yay!…a baby!…Bravo!!
	
Bob's Wife On Thursday, November 1 at 3:23 pm

I mean Real Housewives…with a V…!!..You get in the wrong truck…and I can’t spell…and I even came in early last night from riding my broom!! I see a new show for T.V.!!


Kris On Thursday, November 1 at 3:11 pm

I did the same thing at a garage sale a few months ago when we were out of town on vacation. We drove in our friend’s car and it’s a generic shape and color so I kind of forgot what it looked like. The guys got bored so they went to sit in the car while my friend and I kept poking through things. Turns out the guys MOVED the car on top of me forgettting what it looked like – so I opened the back door of a car that I thought was the right one…but it wasn’t!! The guy waiting inside the car said “I think you have the wrong car”….and I replied “oh my gosh, I do!” My husband and his friend watched the entire thing and they thought it was very funny!! Thankfully I am blonde, so I get to blame alot of my dorkiness on my hair color. Comes in handy sometimes…..
	


Jabber Jaws On Thursday, November 1 at 3:14 pm

This happened to me! I WAS PREGNANT and went to what I thought was my car in a Kinko’s parking lot. I opened the driving door and sat down but hadn’t closed the door when I hear a man say ma’am? I screamed so loud and sort of fell out of the seat that he jumped out of the car — he was sitting in his friend’s car while his friend ran in the store. My shrill was so bad he bailed on the car and just went inside the store. I was super ashamed of myself.
	


dan's wife On Thursday, November 1 at 3:14 pm

So did survival instinct kick in, i.e. were you able to grab a handful of candy from the stranger’s truck under cover of your confusion?

Works for me.
	


Julie Luek On Thursday, November 1 at 3:14 pm

My mom tells a story of walking down the city streets of Pittsburgh with my dad, years and years ago. Apparently he stopped to look at something she kept going and reached for the hand of the man she was walking next to, which was NOT my father. She was so embarrassed and let go very quickly. He looked at her, smiled and said, “That’s all right ma’am. I didn’t mind.”

And that’s their story of how my dad almost lost my mom to another man.
	
Leah H. On Friday, November 2 at 1:38 pm

“And that’s their story of how my dad almost lost my mom to another man.”

oh dear, I read that as,

“And that’s THE story of how my dad LOST my mom to another man.”

and I was thinking,

“Oh my goodness that is so messed up? Kind of sweet? Really sad? Bittersweet?”

I’m glad it’s an almost…;)


Terry in Divide On Thursday, November 1 at 3:16 pm

I’d had my new burgundy Civic for under a week and I couldn’t understand why the key to unlock the door wasn’t working. Of course, it was another burgundy Civic I was trying to get into. My next car was mint green, and my current one is orange. But up here, I’ve often headed for the wrong blue pickup when Hubster was driving. Everyone but me has a pickup up here, and 87.3% of them are blue. Doesn’t matter a lot, because 99.9% of them are covered in decomposed granite (the 0.1% is someone who’s not from around here)
	
caroline On Thursday, November 1 at 3:51 pm

Too funny- in college I had a light blue mustang and one day in the commuter lot I walk up and put the key in and it doesn’t open, after jiggling it it opened, I sat inside and then realized it was NOT my car! Embarassed and horrified!


LoriB On Thursday, November 1 at 3:17 pm

Great time of outreach to our church neighborhood. Can’t beat Frito pie on a beautiful fall evening :)
	


SK On Thursday, November 1 at 3:18 pm

Haha… That’s funny!!
	


Nicole Glover On Thursday, November 1 at 3:21 pm

I can so relate to this. Once I dropped my daughter off at gymnastics class and brought her inside to watch for a few minutes. When I left, I walked up to my Suburban, opened the door and hauled myself right on in. Just as I was about to put the key in the ignition, something felt “wrong”. I turned my head as two little girls in the backseat asked what I was doing. Oops. My Suburban was parked right alongside this one.
Funny thing is, I felt so hot all of a sudden, and bolted to my car (3 feet away), started that baby up and went home. I never even thought to explain myself. I just muttered “sorry” and went. Those poor babies must have thought I was crazy.
	


Tina K On Thursday, November 1 at 3:21 pm

1) I am pregnant right now and the thought of my children being old enough to go alone to trick or treat makes me feel as miserable as you described. *HUGS*

2) The whole wrong truck thing–totally something I would do.

3) Your husband’s response sounds like what my husband’s response would’ve been. Darn sensical men.
	


Jacqueline On Thursday, November 1 at 3:23 pm

I did almost the exact same thing when we were at a gas station once. My husband watched me do it and knew I didn’t realize I was getting in the wrong van. All I could do was laugh at myself! Now I get to laugh at someone else. It is a little scary though.
	


Kristin On Thursday, November 1 at 3:26 pm

Oh my gosh! I did the exact same thing many years ago. Except in my case my entire family watched as I hopped into the back seat of the wrong Chevy Tahoe and startled the poor man sitting in the drivers seat! I stared at him for a few seconds before hopping back out like the seat was on fire…..only to be nearly bowled over by the shrieks of laughter from my family. I blamed it on the cold medicine I had taken that morning….
	


AliciaC On Thursday, November 1 at 3:26 pm

Sounds like a nice new tradition was started!

The chips and talking part, not the almost kidnapped part….
	


Alice On Thursday, November 1 at 3:29 pm

Sweet!
	


SHeila On Thursday, November 1 at 3:31 pm

BAWAHAHAHAHAHA Too funny!
	


Anele @ Success Along the Weigh On Thursday, November 1 at 3:31 pm

OMG, I thought I was the only one that did that. Sometime the Mr will actually wait to see if I try to get into the wrong car that’s the same color near our car. Clearly I’m observant.
	


J. Conner On Thursday, November 1 at 3:32 pm

Oh my goodness! I would have been mortified…but thanks for making me laugh out loud on a otherwise boring Thursday afternoon. Also, I feel your pain on letting the kids go….waahhh…wish I had the option of having another baby…my littlest is now six.
	


Haley @ The Saucy Apple On Thursday, November 1 at 3:35 pm

Hi Ree! I recently started following your blog, and I just gotta say: I love the way you tell stories. :) Keep it up, Girl!
	


Lora On Thursday, November 1 at 3:36 pm

Something similar just happened to me a couple weeks ago…except it was someone else trying to get into my car. I wish someone could have captured the look on both our faces when we realized what was happening. The gentleman was mortified and once I got my heart rate back down I thought it was funny. Turns out, he had a rental car that day and couldn’t remember what it looked like so he guessed it was my car. Wrong!
	


Susan in Colorado On Thursday, November 1 at 3:38 pm

You are crazy and as a mom of a 16 and 17 year old PLUS a four year old.. you don’t want to start over… really!! LOL Although I DID get to go Trick or Treating.. and had a blast!
	


Susan Gabriel On Thursday, November 1 at 3:38 pm

I haven’t stopped by for a couple of years and it seems a lot has happened. Congratulations on all this.

Just so you’ll know, I’m a writer and I may use that clutching my womb line someday. It is priceless. I hope you’re still around when you go through menopause. I’m already laughing just thinking about the comic potential!
	


Nicki M. On Thursday, November 1 at 3:50 pm

Thank you thank you thank you for giving me a darn good belly laugh!! I sure needed it today. ALMOST as funny as your donut story.
	


Lauren in Washington On Thursday, November 1 at 3:52 pm

Too funny!!!! Guess that’s what happens when almost everyone in town drives a pick-up :-)
	


Amber C On Thursday, November 1 at 3:52 pm

Thank you so much for the hearty laugh! I needed it! The funniest part to me though was the holding of the womb part – SO FUNNY (and relateble)!!
	


Mrs. Y On Thursday, November 1 at 3:58 pm

That happened to me at the local co-op store during the spring! Opened the door of the wrong white truck and a little eighty year old man was laughing at me. So was my husband. I made both of their days!
	


Gayle E On Thursday, November 1 at 3:59 pm

Hehe! You crack me up! Your kids and hub were probably cracking up too :) . Thanks for the chuckle.
	


Glynda On Thursday, November 1 at 4:05 pm

HA! A few weeks ago, at a different Sam’s than I usually shop at, I walked into the men’s bathroom by mistake (at my regular store the women’s is on the left, men’s on right…this store was the opposite) and there was a man at a urinal. Instead of quietly sneaking back out, I burst into giggles and sprinted out. To make it worse, a few minutes later when I exited the correct bathroom the man was right outside pushing a basket. I walked by fast thinking I hope he didn’t turn around in the bathroom when I started giggling and doesn’t see me now!
	


AshleyW On Thursday, November 1 at 4:07 pm

One Easter, my large family sat down to eat a delicious lunch before hunting Easter eggs when we heard the doorbell ring. We all looked at eachother as if to say “Did you invite someone else?” (which isnt completely out of the realm for our family. There’s always someone else popping in!). Then all of a sudden, the door opened and this older lady barged in, took a chair from the kitchen, moved it to the dining room, scooted up to the table, and started talking really loudly. We were all stunned and looked around. Again thinking “hmmm do *you* know her?!?!” About 5 minutes of her gabbing along and dishing up food for herself she finally stopped talking and looked around and said “Oh my! I’m in the wrong house!” She quickly ran out of the house, embarrassed for sure! We all got a good laugh. Turns out, she needed to be down one block :) Best. Easter. Ever. :)
	
Monie On Saturday, November 3 at 2:52 pm

This made me laugh out loud…so funny! Bless her heart…she probably never got over that embarrassment. Poor thing!


Diane On Thursday, November 1 at 4:10 pm

Ree, you crack me up!!!
	


Patricia C On Thursday, November 1 at 4:10 pm

I used to own a blue camaro (it was the 70s what can I say). My friends and I left a club and was walking to my car. A young man (cute, too!) was trying to get in my car. I yelled at him, Hey, that’s my car. He laughed like hell and then said, no your car’s in front. This is mine and I just spent 1/2 hour trying to get into yours. We both had identical cars and he had parked behind me but apparently made the same mistake and tried to get into mine.
	


Kate @ Songs Kate Sang On Thursday, November 1 at 4:20 pm

I love that I come by your blog and actually laugh out loud! Thank you.
	


cottage bound On Thursday, November 1 at 4:24 pm

I love you for sharing these silly anecdotes with us. We all do the same crazy things, it’s nice to know that we’re not alone. It is always great to laugh at oneself. I appreciate your wit, your ability to tell a story we all feel a part of, and the smile your stories bring out. May God bless you and yours!
	


Emily On Thursday, November 1 at 4:29 pm

That’s hilarious! I almost peed in my pants I was laughing so hard!
	


IndyLindy On Thursday, November 1 at 4:33 pm

Oh, Ree…I so relate. One time my husband dropped me off to pick up carryout at a local restaurant, while he waited in the car in the carryout pickup lane. When I came out with our food, I opened the door of the car IN FRONT of the one my husband was in and was beginning to load the food into the vehicle before I realized that I’d never seen the driver before in my life. And Hubby was sitting in our car, watching the whole fiasco.
	
Terri Simmons On Friday, November 2 at 3:33 pm

Oh, yeah….Krispy Kreme, arms loaded with doughnuts, husband and kids watching and laughing at me the whole time. Been there, done that.


Amanda M On Thursday, November 1 at 4:35 pm

Omg I have thought for years that it was only me that has done this. I was in high school and a bunch of us were getting picked up from an after school activity, it was dark and I swear it looked just like my dad’s car but it was not. The worst part was as I starting sitting down (I may have even closed the door too) I started talking to the woman as though she were my dad before realizing. I’m pretty sure I just jumped out and ran away without saying anything..
	


billie On Thursday, November 1 at 4:36 pm

Nooooo, HAVE ANOTHER BABY! PLEASE.
	


Sarah B. On Thursday, November 1 at 4:40 pm

I did that once at my hairdresser’s! I had taken DH’s car, which is white, and I was texting him as I came out of the salon. I had hit the unlock button on my keychain, so when I got to the car, I opened the door and climbed in. I finished my text, looked around at me and realized that there was stuff on the passenger seat that hadn’t been there before. However, it *STILL* didn’t kick in until the key wouldn’t fit into the ignition that I was in SOMEONE ELSE’S CAR! I was so grateful that they didn’t come out screaming at me. *embarassed face*
	


Janice C-NC On Thursday, November 1 at 4:43 pm

I am sooo glad I’m not the only one that has done that, in my case it was a woman in the passenger seat, I guess she thought I was trying to “kidnap” her! Thanks for the laugh!
	


Ameliabedilia On Thursday, November 1 at 4:44 pm

It is always hard that first year when your child wants to go trick or treating alone or doesn’t want to go at all. However, having another child might not be a good idea ( or maybe you were joking) as I think you are about my age (43)….so, I think both of us are closer to grandkids than more kids ourselves. Lol!
	


Pamala On Thursday, November 1 at 4:49 pm

I totally can relate……I’m not a car person. I drive a gray one and I know it’s a Nissan. A couple of times at the grocery store, I’ve hit the trunk button remote, only to see a trunk open a few cars down. So humiliating!
	


Kelly-Anne On Thursday, November 1 at 4:54 pm

I have attempted to get into someone else’s vehicle by mistake more than once. My husband just says. “Would you like to get in our car sweetheart?” I just laugh.
	


Amy On Thursday, November 1 at 5:03 pm

My coworker did this. She’s walking with her daughter across the parking lot having just left dance class, she walks up to an SUV, opens the back and tells her daughter to climb in. The daughter climbs in, but is saying “Ummm, mom?” suddenly she realizes and panics “Get out! Get out! Get out!!!!”

Good times.
	


Favor F On Thursday, November 1 at 5:10 pm

HaHa! That was funny, only because I’ve done something similar!. Enjoy Houston tomorrow, you’ll miss the rain. I can’t make it but I’ll be wishing I could!
	


Boo On Thursday, November 1 at 5:11 pm

I laughed at this because, apparently your town is safe enough for the kids to go out trick or treating alone in, but then you ran screaming from an innocent, unsuspecting man in a truck who politely called you “Mam!” That’s my kind of town…unlike the big city we’re in! Thanks for being your beautiful, humble but funny self!
	


Sam On Thursday, November 1 at 5:15 pm

Oh the memories this brings back – my MOST embarrassing moment — when I was in high school and dating this guy – we went to the drive-in, and both went to the restroom about the same time but didn’t think to wait for each other to go back to the car…So I returned to his car and got in the front seat … only to find a couple in the BACK seat um….quite occupied! Yikes — and I was an innocent little parochial high schooler back in the day…got quite an eyeful that night for sure!
	


Mary Lou Kemp On Thursday, November 1 at 5:17 pm

Kinda like my husband walking into the ladies room by mistake and coming out quickly with a few woman behind him laughing. He was so embarrassed.
	


Iris On Thursday, November 1 at 5:20 pm

Great Halloween story! Need more pictures of the “lil’ Goblins”. Thank you.
	


Bamanan On Thursday, November 1 at 5:27 pm

I was eating and reading this:….”I ran and ran and ran until I couldn’t run anymore, and when I stopped running approximately eight yards later”….and almost choked on my peanuts! I gave you ten yards…! HAHAHAHAA!
	


Jules On Thursday, November 1 at 5:36 pm

This reminds me of a time when I was at the movies and was so entranced with what was on the screen that I reached into what I thought was my purse, only it wasn’t. The poor lady next to me snatched her purse back and gave me the most violated look, poor thing. This kind of stuff happens to me all.the.time!
	


kathy (yaya) On Thursday, November 1 at 5:40 pm

Sounds like someone needed more supervision…and it wasn’t the kiddos! We always do trick or treat the Thursday before Halloween in our town and this year it was good because the weather…thanks to Sandy…made it awful on Wednesday!
	


Theresa in Alberta On Thursday, November 1 at 5:40 pm

GO ahead and have another baby ;-) Good thing you live in a small town and the driver in the 1/2 ton probably recognized you and thought “oh its just PW” .
	


Amy D. On Thursday, November 1 at 5:58 pm

Don’t feel bad, I don’t even have to be getting into a car to do this. I was shopping with my husband and I put a few items in “my cart” and snuggled in next to “my husband” and said “honey, I couldn’t find such and such” when I heard, “Not that I mind, but I think you have the wrong honey.” It pays to look up once and awhile. ;)
	


Lisa On Thursday, November 1 at 6:05 pm

Oh my goodness, that is a funny telling. I almost goosed the wrong guy once…thought it was my husband and realized before I did it…but I most certainly invaded strange man’s personal space.
	


Darcey H On Thursday, November 1 at 6:27 pm

OMG!! Thank you for the great story, you made me laugh and I needed the good chuckle after working all day!!!
	


Diana On Thursday, November 1 at 6:39 pm

I needed a good laugh today!!!!! Thank you for being you.
	


dobes On Thursday, November 1 at 6:43 pm

Never fear, you will haul babies on your hip at Halloween and admire the costumes of 3-year-olds again — when you have grandchildren. For the next however many years, your job is to sit back and drink wine with Hyacinth et al while the kids go out, then, when they are in college or are young adults, to have an adult Halloween party with Hyacinth et al. Then, the grandchildren arrive and everything starts all over again, before you even have time to miss it. Really!
	


Amy On Thursday, November 1 at 6:45 pm

So, how was the Twizzler selection? My kids didn’t get any. Mama ain’t happy!
	


debtgirl On Thursday, November 1 at 6:49 pm

good idea! ;-)
	


Laura On Thursday, November 1 at 6:58 pm

When I was a little girl I hugged the wrong legs. I was in the mall and got distracted (a habit I still have) then realized my mother wasn’t anywhere to be seen. I looked around frantically, then recognizing her pant legs, sprinted to her and hugged them, exclaiming “mommy!” in a voice that I remember being full of relief and happiness.
The emotions were directly related to the knowledge that with my arms around her legs I wouln’t have to live in the mall…alone…forever. Then I heard an unfamiliar voice say, “Well, yes. But not, your mommy.” I looked up and realized in horror that I was hugging the wrong legs. I felt betrayed. These were not the pant legs I was looking for. Then I burst into tears. (Sure that the living-alone-in-the-mall scenario was still a risk.)
So basically what I’m saying is, I hear you, and just be glad you didn’t cry. Running was a perfectly logical reaction. :)
	


Diane On Thursday, November 1 at 7:01 pm

Ok, that is so funny! :) Once, when we were retrieving our car from a very busy valet service and our son, then 16 I think, walked over to a silver, Honda Odyssey, just like our and casually got in. He didn’t hear us saying…”wait, not ours”. So, he got in and started buckling up…that was until he saw toys on the floor that didn’t belong to us. And then he saw a very shocked Chinese family looking up at him. We all just watched in shock…the smiles forming as he got out and laughed…he couldn’t believe what he had just done! :) So, like you, we will have a fun story to smile over for years to come! Blessings to you! Thank you for sharing your life! :)
	


Susan On Thursday, November 1 at 7:21 pm

LOL Pretty soon, your kids won’t want to be seen with you in public!
Or one of them will have to watch you at all times!
	


Joanne J. On Thursday, November 1 at 7:29 pm

LOL!
	


CarolHS On Thursday, November 1 at 7:29 pm

Ree, you certainly find more adventure in your small town than I ever did in mine. :D
	


Brenda M. On Thursday, November 1 at 7:31 pm

Ree, you seriously crack me up. We’ve never met, but I love ya girl.
	


Beth Ezidro On Thursday, November 1 at 7:36 pm

That is an awesome store it made me laugh hahaha thank you ;)
	


Denise in VA On Thursday, November 1 at 7:36 pm

Ummmmm…..yeah. I think another baby should not be in your future…..

You are a hoot and a half!
	


Janet On Thursday, November 1 at 7:37 pm

Oh, my heavens, I’ve been laughing like crazy at your story and then everybody else’s. Not that this ever happened to me. No, it just struck me as funny somehow. Like I could imagine being in the same situation.
	


Barb D On Thursday, November 1 at 7:51 pm

Easy to do and sounds like what I would have said to my husband — the almost
being kidnapped part. I always say to him…you fogot to lock the door last night and someone could have stole me.
	


Monie On Thursday, November 1 at 8:03 pm

This story falls on sympathetic ears. My friend and I like to look at new construction. We had our eyes on a house that was in the process of being built. We wanted to see it close to completion. The first attempt to see it was a drive-by, as the stone masons were working that day, and had roped off the entrance. We waited a week…not wanting to be in the way or mess up any work. The day came and we drove out to the house. No rope/tape…but it still looked like a work in progress. We carefully made our way up to the front door…DARN, if it wasn’t all locked up! We decided to just look through the windows since we couldn’t get inside. I went one way, my friend went the other…and lo, if the owners had not already moved in!!!!! OH NO!!!!. I found myself peering into the ‘study’ window at a man in his shorts unpacking books…my friend found herself peering into the kitchen only to find the woman in her house-dress, unpacking boxes. We simultaneously gasped, sort of squealed like pigs, and turned on our heels and ran to the car. We were both horrified of course, but more than that, just eternally grateful for not being arrested for trespassing! I haven’t gone to look at new houses since. The End.
	


Steph On Thursday, November 1 at 8:07 pm

Ree, you make me laugh out loud, which, admittedly, isn’t easy to do these days.

Thanks for your site and for making me laugh.
	


Diane in Dallas On Thursday, November 1 at 8:13 pm

You remind me so much of my sister. Don’t feel bad about the truck . My sister once was going to some people’s house to practice for a church program at Christmas. She wasn’t paying attention to the house when she pulled up and actually “walked into the wrong house”. There were all sorts of people in there. They all looked at her and she looked at them and to cover her mistake she just said “Merry Christmas” and hauled out of there. So much for keeping your doors locked!
	


Linda P On Thursday, November 1 at 8:36 pm

So glad you didn’t kidnap yourself . . . I wouldn’t have had anything to laugh about before I go to bed. I never thought that Halloween would make me melancholy thinking about my 14 years getting older. I’m glad to know that I’m not the only one. Although, I never thought I should have another baby to fill the void. . . I’ll get over it.
	


Deelight On Thursday, November 1 at 8:37 pm

Just think, Ree…what you’ve really done is maximized your strategic advantage in the deadly game of candy-piracy. By the time the kids are done gasping for air due to shrieking in laughter, you’ll have had time to scarf down multitudes of Butterfingers, Twizzlers, and anything else that makes your skirt fly up…
	


staci On Thursday, November 1 at 8:45 pm

what i love … is your ability to make me laugh when nothing in the world feels funny at all. thank you so much for that. oh, and please stay safe from now on. we don’t need you going and kidnapping yourself.
	


Becky C On Thursday, November 1 at 8:47 pm

I think we’re missing the point here…CLEARLY this means he needs to go get that slick blue truck you found the other day! Problem solved…you’re welcome! ;)
	


funnyhaha On Thursday, November 1 at 8:47 pm

Too funny! You didn’t mention what you were drinking … a little too much wine perhaps? :)
	


Sandy On Thursday, November 1 at 8:57 pm

Ree – I am so proud of you. You “ran and ran and ran”… I can’t even run 50 yards. It sounds like all that working out you have been doing with MM is paying off. Good for you!
	

Diane On Thursday, November 1 at 9:02 pm

I am crying laughing at this!!!
	


Erin On Thursday, November 1 at 9:25 pm

Best laugh all week — thanks!
	


Jane B. On Thursday, November 1 at 9:25 pm

Oh, Ree. You reminded me of one of my favorite stories about a friend who is no longer with us but used to make me laugh just like you do. She went into a mall during the daylight and then returned to the parking lot at night, with the fluorescent lights on in the parking lot. When she got to her car she was shocked to find her key wouldn’t work and thought she must have dropped her correct car key somewhere in the mall, so she called her AAA car service and had them come out to the parking lot and “break into” her car. Once she got inside, she was mortified to find out that it wasn’t her car. The lights had changed the color to look like the color of her car. She beat it out of that car as soon as the AAA service car was out of sight and found her car, also changed color under the lights, and took off, hoping the other car owner never found out about that forced entry!
	
Deanna Foreman On Friday, November 2 at 12:18 pm

LOL that is awesome.
CJ On Saturday, November 3 at 9:35 pm

Jane, I returned to hometown after 20 yr absence and took 80 yr old mom to the movies. Only now it was a huge multiplex. Came out to parking lot after movie and couldn’t find my brand new orange car. Of course it’s snowing like crazy. Found a guard and he says, “you do know there are 4 entrances to this theater?” He drove us to the other said and there was the car! He said it happens all the time. But I still felt pretty dumb.


MaryJo On Thursday, November 1 at 9:50 pm

Great story, Ree!! I so appreciate your willingness to share your adventures with us, makes me feel better about the silly things I do. =0)
	


Ann Price On Thursday, November 1 at 9:55 pm

OMGosh…ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha hahahahaaaaaaa….that’s a good one. I would have done exactly that and your family responded as would mine….as if these types of thngs happen to me all the time…we are SPECIAL…you and I …not in the short bus kind of way…by the way…very big good kind of special way…you know what I mean. I get ya!
	

Nana On Thursday, November 1 at 10:08 pm

Well, except for the idea of having a fifth child to satisfy your materal & confectionary consumption urges, your story was hilarious. Sounds like something I would do. The getting-into-the-wrong-pickup part, not procreate again.
	

SharonFaye On Thursday, November 1 at 10:16 pm

I HAVE to stop reading your blog right before bed. especially when I bring the laptop to bed with me to read before I go to sleep. I inevitably wake up my husband because I can’t keep from laughing so hard that I shake the bed. Donut case, don’t text and walk into concrete staircases, self-kidnapping… you’re going to have to write another book !
	

Ana On Thursday, November 1 at 10:24 pm

Wow, scary and funny at the same time.
	

Captain Micah On Thursday, November 1 at 10:58 pm

Eight yards….man, that made me laugh! You’re so awesome, Ree!
	
Jeanne On Thursday, November 1 at 11:54 pm

Ditto!

Tenaya On Thursday, November 1 at 11:04 pm

HA!!! I love it!
	
