Rare Styrofoam Coffee Cup Art That Borders On The Epically Insane

If you have ever ordered a coffee to-go, you know that looking at those Styrofoam cups is the ultimate lame experience. They are usually all white and don’t even begin to express the awesomeness inside. The content of your Styrofoam cup is what will fuel you for the entire day, so why not decorate it a little? The cups we get are the ultimate in boredom if you ask me. Why there can’t be more creativity expressed on the actual coffee cup itself is beyond my understanding. I mean, someone should be able to come up with some kind of coffee cup art to inspire us, right? And as it turns out, someone has! It’s part of some rather intense coffee cup art that borders on the insane.

Artist Cheeming Boey is a particularly interesting artist. The art that comes from Cheeming’s mind is not your conventional cartoon or portrait art, nah, it all has to do with some extensive micro cartoon doodling that will have your mind blown in seconds. If you ever thought your coffee cup lacked artistic expression then Cheeming’s Styrofoam coffee cup art will have you put that coffee of yours down the wrong throat.

As always, when it comes to expressive, rare and ultimately inspiring art, it doesn’t come cheap. If you want one of these coffee cup art pieces, you will have to cough up some rather sharp dough. Some of these Styrofoam coffee cups cost upwards of $1,500 a pop. It’s not exactly something that you’d take with you to your local Starbucks, pour some coffee in, and then just discard when you are finished with it. Nah, this coffee cup art series is a collector’s dream that will probably only go up in price as more and more people want their own. After all, each one is entirely custom made and doodled, and only comes in a one-off execution. So the one that you acquire will be the only one ever made which looks like that. Customization isn’t cheap, but it is awesome!

    Cheeming Boey’s Styrofoam Coffee Cup Art

    (Click To Enlarge)

