Hue: The iPhone Controlled Light Bulb System

Light has always been one of the factors that decides our mood and creativity. Without light, we would all probably go insane at some point. Light is such a vital part of our every day lives that living without it is virtually impossible. It’s even been medically proven that some people need light treatment in order to feel happy during the dark winters in some countries around the world. Light is more important to your existence that you could ever know. Maybe that is why the human race is continuously trying to invent new forms of light. The button controlled on/off lights we are used to are no longer satisfying enough, and we see are now seeing new light systems being introduced into the market. This new iPhone controlled light bulb system is one of those.

This new idea is the result of some rather extensive research, and it’s called the Hue bulb. It’s designed and developed by Philips and is meant to make our illumination needs a whole lot more creative. This system is entirely iPhone controlled and will enable you to change the light in your home to whatever color you want. You can choose colors from pictures, palettes or anything that has color in it on your iPhone. All you need to do is to select the bulb which you want to change and then slide your finger across your color palette. It’s as simple as that.

The genius approach to make it iPhone controlled is yet another really cool feature. With a rather innovative application, you will control your entire home’s lighting from your iPhone. It’s great when you want to make every event a special one, relive memories through colors or just get a little bit more inspiration and focus with the help of the scientifically proven RGB settings that come default in your iPhone controlled application. The impact of light has always been great, as mentioned, and this could possibly take it even further. It is made available through the Apple Store and will set you back a geeky $59.95 per light bulb. It’s not exactly expensive when you think about the huge impact it will have on every event you will ever undertake after you have installed them all around your house. And the fact that it is iPhone controlled should make it even more appealing for people who constantly want to change the color or the intensity of the light around them.

    Philips Hue iPhone Controlled Light Bulb System

