CHURUMURI POLL: Has India lost moral compass?

In its 62nd year as a Republic, India presents a picture that can only mildy be termed unedifying.

Scams are raining down on a parched landscape with frightening ferocity. From outer space (2G, S-band) to the inner depths of mother earth (coal), the Congress-led UPA has had it all covered in its second stint. Meanwhile, Robert Vadra, the son-in-law of the first family of the Congress, has taken charge of scandals at or near sea level.

Salman Khurshid, the smooth-talking Oxford-educated law minister, thinks it is beneath his dignity to respond in a dignified manner to charges of pilfering Rs 71 lakh from the disabled. The Harvard-educated finance minister P. Chidambaram and his family is happily busy gobbling up parts of the east coast from farmers. Etcetera.

But what of the opposition?

The BJP’s president Nitin Gadkari is neckdeep in a gapla of his own,  one that threatens, in fact one that is designed to deprive him of a second stint in office. “Scam”, of course, was the middle-name of party’s Karnataka mascot, B.S. Yediyurappa. From Mulayam‘s SP to Mayawati‘s BSP to Sharad Pawar‘s NCP, from Karunanidhi‘s DMK to Jayalalitha‘s AIADMK, money-making is the be-all and end-all.

The less said of the corporates who have pillaged the country since time immemorial the better but Vijay Mallya presents its most compelling side as he shuts down his airline while his son hunts for calendar girls. The do-gooders of Team Anna and now Team Kejriwal are themselves subject to searching questions on their integrity levels. And the media is busy getting exposed as extortionists and blackmailers.

Questions: Have we as a country completely lost our moral and ethical compass? Are we going through an “unprecedented” phenomenon or is this what the US and other developed democracies like Japan have gone through in their path to progress? Or does it not matter in the greater scheme of things? Is all this leaving the citizenry cynical and frustrated or do we not care because all of us are in it, in our own little ways?




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





    Narayan Chabbi Says:
    23 October 2012 at 8:38 pm

    It is indeed a sad commentary of our times. The so called middle class does not nurture the ethics and moral values any more.
    They too belive make hay while the sun shines.
    This leaves a tiny majority. Successive Governments have spoilt everything. Go to a village today. No labour is available as they are paid under one scheme or the other.

    In Karnataka Shbha wanted to scrutinise illegal gas cylinders. Work was well in progress but Sadanada Gowda withdrew this scheme. urn the gas. What does it points to?
    Center wants cut down the subsidy of the cylinders . Lok at TOI report as to how much our netas burn.

    Alas something drastic should happen.
    Communal Award Says:
    23 October 2012 at 9:03 pm

    India is an uncivilized nation.

    Every 22 minutes a rape is committed in India and out of which 30% are against minors.

    1. The conviction rate is below 25%.
    2. Police refuse to register victim’s complaint.
    3. Insane politicians are saying gang-rape is consensual sex.
    4. Inhuman family members of the rapist visit victim’s house to show off their hegemony.

    As per Congressman Trent Franks House Concurrent Resolution 139, I request Obama Administration to direct New Delhi regime to create an Independent nation for 300 million India’s untouchables.
    Nastika Says:
    23 October 2012 at 10:14 pm

    Robert, Salman, Nitin are just names. The fact is, put any Indian in that post, voila their names pop up in the list of corrupt !!

    ~*~
    sahhasra saagara Says:
    23 October 2012 at 11:26 pm

    hi
    some time back at a saloon speaking about politicians,government,etc.,
    One groundnut vendor suggesting that people should stop paying tax, stop franchising their valuable votes.
    he also predict “all these idiots will behind bars and their days are end”
    sometimes i use to remember his words as so many events are in front of us.
    i think within 2025 AD there will be major changes on the earth, it may be satya yuga.
    sahhasra saagara
    harkol Says:
    24 October 2012 at 12:08 am

    All those folks who were blaming Anna Hazare, Kejriwal etc. should answer this question:

    If we respect the existing ‘system’, and hope to bring about change through vote – whom do we vote?

    If your choice is one scoundrel or another – both of whom will do pretty much the same things once elected – isn’t election itself a false choice?

    This is why either the system will need to be changed through a revolution – or through new options emerging.

    Hoping parties like Jansatta or Kejriwal’s new party will grow and provide that alternative.

    Otherwise, we are back to voting for the ‘lesser scoundrel’.
    chidu22 Says:
    24 October 2012 at 12:17 am

    The suggestion that the bigger economies of the world have been through such a phase is looking for excuses. I don’t care what happened in these countries or how they evolved, I am getting screwed here.We as a nation didn’t change even after independence, with the British gone, the loot was easy as it became unchecked. Moral compass was never there in the first place. Barring a minority all the rich are corrupt. Hard work and ethics are alien to Indians. They beleive in multiplying wealth by grabbing gold, real estate, stocks and shares etc. No tangible hardwork on part of any body, it pervades every profession. Look at what movies gross 100crores, Dabbang. Compare this with Avatar, Titanic. The entire Industry is a con business. We has a nation need a change in attitude, only then there is hope.
    nRavi Says:
    24 October 2012 at 2:07 am

    India sure did not invent Magnetic Compass!
    Gundaa Says:
    24 October 2012 at 6:39 am

    What has Vijay Mallya’s son going after girls got to do with ethics? We are not an islamic nation. Looks like Taliban members are up in arms.
    akpsuratAbdulraheman Patrawala Says:
    24 October 2012 at 6:57 am

    Is all this leaving the citizenry cynical and frustrated or do we not care because all of us are in it, in our own little ways? Nonsense !!!The time has come for a common man to chair the PM post in 2014.
    austere (@austereseeker) Says:
    24 October 2012 at 10:27 am

    The rulers are corrupt beyond redemption. But I trust in the common man, the man in the street and the man in the field. Perhaps I’m living in a fool’s paradise.
    Amit M Says:
    24 October 2012 at 10:42 am

    Is this necessarily a new, modern phenomenon? Were our leaders really better in the past? I don’t think so. It’s just that the scale and the awareness that these things happen, has gone up.
    Avi Says:
    24 October 2012 at 11:57 am

    It is nothing new. This is happening in India for long. Only thing is now there is media and people come to know; and also these kind of people have become thick-skinned now and doesnt bother about these exposures.
    Nanjundaswamy.S Says:
    24 October 2012 at 1:16 pm

    It is agonizing to note that we have lost self esteem, ethics, morality and what not.? Common man is sand witched between the insensitive politicians and bureaucracy. God alone should come to our rescue.
    Objectivist Mantra Says:
    24 October 2012 at 1:19 pm

    Why blame India, it is Italy (and Italians & their European cronies) who have lost their moral compass.

    Unfortunately the India political elite continues to prostrate before the Europeans, they don’t care about India and Indians, they would rather transfer all our wealth to Europe.

    The bottom line is that the moral compass of India currently lies locked up in a Swiss bank locker.
    Suresh Says:
    24 October 2012 at 2:03 pm

    As a common man, i was not having such bad opinion about our country till recently , but the developments of late has completely uprooted my belief.

    One example :
    There is a problem in availability of gas cylinders in Kerala
    irrespective of whether it is subsidized or not. So the home makers
    shifted to induction stoves, which resulted in excess electricity
    consumption. So Electricity board started load shedding in the morning and evening ( in between 6Am to 10 Am and 6 Pm to 10 Pm). So the homemakers started getting up at 5 am and started cooking in induction stoves!. Electricity board started cutting power randomly also. The question is where should a middle class person go – He neither has gas nor electricity. How will he cook and eat?

    This is how the politicians run this country.!!.
    Banks are ready to write off the loan of Kingfisher (6000 Crores) but when it comes to farmers, they want government subisidy etc.
    Shridharaswamy Says:
    24 October 2012 at 5:41 pm

    Reservation class are the majority in India, minorities, all have welfare, economic, benefits etc. Middle Class [whoever it is I guess all Castes and creeds] who perhaps are pulling Indian Economy through productivity and Taxes. Most small businesses dont pay taxes, middle and large scale involve CAs for cookiing books, Politicians we already know.

    In such a situation, in scarce and diffcult times How a minor Sliver of population support a vast ineffective, non productive majority?
    Deepak Says:
    24 October 2012 at 8:33 pm

    Good set of points. But why do you exclude the media? Have they retained their morality? Does the media have ethics? Do they have any idea about jounralistic integrity? Such words don’t exist in their lexicon!!

    Take money in the forms of ads, etc, take Padma awards, etc, act like a broker between Radia, businessmen and politicians and then lecture on morality to politicians. Media is more immoral, because they are the ones who are supposed to set the moral standards for politicians. When media itself has no morality, what can we expect from politicians?
    onlymohan Says:
    24 October 2012 at 8:44 pm

    When u convert Rs.50 lacs into Rs.300 cr, you are Robert Vadra…
    If u convert Rs.500 crores into Rs.50 lacs, you are Vijay Mallya….

    Difference is between chasing right and wrong Woman!
    dr ramesh Says:
    24 October 2012 at 11:10 pm

    Curious case of gadkari —– classic case of corruption and mediocrity in Indian politics.
    RSS wanted a fundraiser, businessman as the party president of bjp who has no thinking power but would blindly follow their diktat, they coronated him, enjoyed huge favours but now heat is on after GHOST COMPANIES, SHELL COMPANIES CORRUPTION.
    Bjp’s reaction is more shocking, our corruption is less compared to vadhra.
    Congress bjp neck deep in corruption —- what is the alternative, obviously regional parties are gaining popularity. This trend will only get stronger.
    sunil Says:
    25 October 2012 at 4:27 pm

    Most of people who raise their voice against does’t not come across a situation where the can be corrupt. If they ever come across, then 90% of these people are suceptible to corruption. Only 10% will remain clean. As somebody said above, that “these are just names”, it is very ture statement.
    People are greedy. Every body want to become rich. People always fall prey for Easy money. The only solution is to build a system where there is no scope for Corruption. Every transaction should be accountable. United states has this kind of system to certain extent (if not 100%, they are sucessful to an extent of 60%). We really need to think in this direction. There is no point in shouting at A,B and C. A,B,C will be again replaced by X,Y,Z.
    Deepak Says:
    25 October 2012 at 8:24 pm

    @dr ramesh – What about the corruption of regional parties, namely Deve Gowda and Kumaranna who have looted the state shamelessly? What about the corruption of Jaya and Karuna? Mulayam and Maya? Badal? So corruption of regional parties is OK and of national parties not?

    Reality is everyone looks to make money because they know no one can stop them. Fools like Kejriwal instead of focussing on ensuring a strong system wants to play petty politics. Till we have an independent Lokpal with its own investigation agency, our country can never improve. The corrupt will keep looting

    PS : I had written a comment about immorality of media. As though to prove this right, today Zee News has been accused by Jindal of demanding a bribe to kill a story. Who will guard the guardians?
    Communal Award Says:
    25 October 2012 at 9:42 pm

    Caste = Corrupt by birth.

    90% of corrupt money ($2 Trillion) is with forward caste people. Their population in India is less than 150 million.

    * Corrupt Money in Swiss banks = $1.4 trillion(FC)
    * IGI Airport scam = $32 billion(FC)
    * Coal Mining Scam = $213 billion(FC)
    * Karnataka Wakf Board Land Scam = $39 billion(FC)
    * Andhra Pradesh land scam = $20 billion(FC)
    * Service Tax and Central Excise Duty fraud = $3.82 billion(FC)
    * Gujarat PSU financial irregularities = $3.39 billion(FC)
    * Maharashtra stamp duty scam = $126 million(FC)
    * Highway scam = $13.97 million(FC)
    * Ministry of External Affairs gift scam = $100,000(FC)
    * Himachal Pradesh pulse scam = $200,000/month(FC)
    * Flying Club fraud = $38 million(FC)
    * Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association scam = $10 million (MC)
    * Punjab paddy scam = $3.59 million(FC)
    * Arvind Joshi and Tinu Joshi = $50 million(FC)
    * Uttar Pradesh seed scam = $9.98 million(FC)
    * Obsolete French Fighter Jets = $11 billion(FC)
    * NHRM = $2 billion(BC)
    * Goa mining scam = $700 million(FC)
    * Noida Corporation farm land scandal = $40 million(SC)
    * Bellary mines scandal = $3.2 billion(FC)
    * BL Kashyap EPFO Scam = $118 million(FC)
    * Hasan Ali Khan = $8 billion(MC)
    * ISRO-Devas = $300 million(FC)
    * Cash-for-votes = $715,000(FC)
    * 2G spectrum scam/Radia Tapes = $6.9 billion(BC)
    * Adarsh Housing Society(FC)
    * Commonwealth Games = $15.5 billion(FC)
    * LIC Housing Loan scam = $200 million(FC)
    * Belekeri port = $12 billion(FC)
    * Lavasa = $80 million(FC)
    * Uttar Pradesh Food Grain = $44 billion(BC)
    * APIIIC = $2 billion(FC)
    * IPL Cricket = $8 billion(FC)
    * Madhu Koda = $800 million(SC)
    * UIDAI = $1 billion(FC)
    * Vasundhara Raje land scam = $4.4 billion(FC)
    * Satyam = $1 billion(FC)
    * Scorpene Deal = $10 million(FC)
    * Oil-for-food programme (Natwar Singh) = $10 billion(FC)
    * Gegong Apang PDS = $200 million(ST)
    * Taj corridor = $44 million(SC)
    * Ketan Parekh = $200 million(FC)
    * Barak Missile = $200 million(FC)
    * Calcutta Stock Exchange = $2 million(FC)
    * Cobbler scam = $214 million(FC)
    * Sukh Ram = $5 million(FC)
    * SNC Lavalin = $10 million(FC)
    * Advani Hawala = $18 million(FC)
    * Bihar fodder = $211 million(BC)
    partha Says:
    26 October 2012 at 8:38 am

    I would suggest please give India to some other rich country like Singapore or Denmark or UK. British rule was better. Indians are fit to be ruled. Nehru and his congress looted India for all these years. Indian media is full of crime news.
    Sanjeeva Says:
    26 October 2012 at 9:19 am

    All said and done, the very same people get elected again and again and again.
    Nastika Says:
    26 October 2012 at 10:44 am

    If Simple is Congress, then Deepak is BJP. Proved beyond doubt.

    ~*~
    Umesh Says:
    26 October 2012 at 11:32 am

    @ Communal Award: Corrupt have a single caste ‘corrupt class’. Do not complicate the matter by dividing them to forward class corrupt, backward class corrupt.
    shiv Says:
    26 October 2012 at 3:52 pm

    If the top person in an organisation is corrupt, the rest will also be corrupt.We have reached this sad state because the institutions and the people who can control corruption have been undermined.Instead of blaming all and sundry, the real cause of this degradation was the regime in power in the 70s.just to be in power the powers of institutions like our high and supreme courts were undermined by appointing judges who are friendly to the regime.Similarly the top bureaucrats were all yes men.Media men and women became pawns.Once this trend started in Delhi, the states followed suit.the remedy starts with the dismantling of the dubious first family.Once that is done, the rest will fall in line.The issue is who can bell this cat?It seems tough when many influential but less corrupt people have been systematically blackmailed either thro’ investigating agencies or through tax agencies.Look at the corrupt being targeted like yeddy,godcurry or the salmon.Are they the top1000 fishes?Indians like me are laughing.Every one knows who are the richest in India.Target the richest.Real story will tumble.Western nations are less corrupt not because their citizens are honest.Any human being given half a chance will loot.That is due to the defective gene in our body.What keeps the humans in control is the fear that they will get caught and punished.That can only happen when courts cannot be subverted, the institutions work to pull up the corrupt and the media is free and open.Indian media is the most corrupt in the world investigate the hidden wealth of our top media men and women.So go after the top fishes, strengthen the institutions.Within 5 years this country will be different.
    shiv Says:
    26 October 2012 at 3:57 pm

    One other thing I want to tell all in this forum.For the single issue of Kavery water, many in this forum divided themselves as kannadigas and tamils.As long as we divide ourselves in this stupid manner, the powers who control us will easily swindle us.Instead of playing in to their game, start asking how to solve the issue.A solution acceptable to all in Kavery was always available but the crooks who rule us in both states will not settle for a just solution.Once you guys learn to be united for just and correct and spread it to all, the corrupt can be brought to book.
    babuds Says:
    26 October 2012 at 4:06 pm

    Corruption festers in India, and it continues to fester like cancerous wound. If surgery is not done it will consume the country. The politicians should realize this fact and save the country at least for the sake of their own children ( because their children are going to inherit their netaship and what are the princelings going to rule if their is no country). As far the voters are concerned they will continue to vote merrily corrupt parties to rule, oblivious of the danger to the nation state. So the politicians and their political parties are the ones, who can save the country, if only they can see the logic in eradicating corruption.
    Deepak Says:
    26 October 2012 at 4:12 pm

    @Nastika – get your head examined!! Looks like Simple, Anonymous and Nastika are all the same person – member of Congress IT Cell, which is why you post such useless comments.
    harkol Says:
    26 October 2012 at 5:51 pm

    @Communal Award

    Forward caste? 90% ? Really?

    And you know this because all the foreign banks directly report to you with the caste details of their depositors and their percentage holdings?

    And they specifically characterized folks like SG/Vadra, Mayawati, Karunanidhi family etc. as ‘forward’ castes??
    Communal Award Says:
    26 October 2012 at 7:51 pm

    Afraid to take your caste share of land and build your own corruption-free nation as per https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communal_Award
    shiv Says:
    26 October 2012 at 9:02 pm

    “The Harvard-educated finance minister P. Chidambaram and his family is happily busy gobbling up parts of the east coast from farmers. Etcetera.” – I heard 10000hectares of prime land in western ghats of karnataka, the time has come to go after the benamis, the real crooks will tumble out.
    shiv Says:
    27 October 2012 at 5:42 am

    Hello MrCommunal Award @ 25 October 2012 at 9:42 pm

    You are a certified joker, by your examples Raja,Karunanidhi,lallu,Devegowda,Maya,Mulayam are all forward castes!!Bunch of idiots always skew real issues.
    Praveen Kodabagi Says:
    27 October 2012 at 3:30 pm

    I think that the question itself is a problematic since India has lost its moral compass the day the Manusmriti was written, the day Vedas were restricted to the Upper Caste, the day Eklavya was played with, the day the Brahmins took over the hegemony of this region. Hence the base itself has started off on a wrong and fraudulent footing we cannot hope to have the moral compass in the superstructure.
    chidu22 Says:
    27 October 2012 at 9:14 pm

    Praveen Kodabagi,

    Right on the money, hit the nail on the head!
    Manivannan Says:
    28 October 2012 at 8:33 am

    @Harkol:

    I am not opposed to anyone. But, feel that we are blaming ‘democracy’ unnecessarily.

    If we don’t have anybody good to vote, then why don’t we stand for elections? Why can’t we sacrifice our personal life for the nation?

    Why don’t we go to the streets and support whomever we think is good(Loksatta). so that it gets votes and form the government?

    IMHO, that is desirable, than challenging the democratic system, which is the better of the lot.

    But, yes, i am for bringing changes in the system, but without uprooting it. Lets fight for a better Election commission that will give us clean roles, a better bureaucracy, a better judicial system.etc. But, lets not challenge or kill the democratic system.
    Shridharaswamy Says:
    28 October 2012 at 9:33 am

    Praveen Kodabagi is wrong: It all comes to Culture, even within Brahmins you have different grades, I am not saying there are no cultureless people in other communities.

    Preserving a refined culture that can resonate with Dharma [Nobody knows what exactly it is] is more important than being beautiful, rich or healthy.

    Its how your parent raise you, what are the important values that they pass on to you. Its sad modernity has destroyed ancient wisdom, culture, etc. In the end its only Poison.

    False Propanganda etc all are bad, There is a GOD, they will remove anyone they feel who dont deserve.
    Nastika Says:
    28 October 2012 at 11:25 am

    @Deepak,
    So what you mean is if I am not with you then I am Congress?

    If I say Congress is corrupt then Simple will prove that BJP is more corrupt.
    If i say BJP is corrupt, you will prove JDS is more corrupt?

    ~*~
    @Praveen Kodabagi,
    Thats an interesting thought. If the foundation itself is based on contradictions, then everyone is right in whatever they do.

    If you have sinned, then take a dip in Ganga and wash away your sins. Come back next year to wash more sins committed that year.

    ~*~
    Gokulam 3rd Stage Says:
    28 October 2012 at 10:03 pm

    In a democracy, “Yatha praja, tatha raja”. We don’t care for morality in public life. See the recent trend. We have the biggest power cuts in the history of the world and the power minister gets promoted to home minister. The law minister is accused of stealing money from his NGO and he gets promoted to external affairs minister.

    I can’t believe this kind of bullshit would have happened in a country that at least kept up appearances of morality.


