
You! Be Reminded! – October 21-27, 2012
Articles   October 28, 2012  by Cadence Wu

Hello everyone, another week has passed and as we all know that everyone is very excited this coming Halloween. But before you go trick-or-treating, we at You The Designer have once again prepared a recap post in case you missed the things we’ve featured last week.

If you’re all set, let’s begin with a quick recap of the numerous inspirational posts we shared with you starting with:


    An amazing collection of caricatures by four equally amazing artists
    A set of images featuring David Eger’s 365 Days of Clones project
    Another short feature about Ray Villafane and his insane pumpkin carvings, and lastly
    An inspirational post about photo manipulations by Laurent Chéhère featuring a set of flying houses

 

 

Our team also wrote several informational articles showcasing various projects by different artists all over the world, including:


    A short feature about the Paper Table project by renowned graphic artist Chuck Anderson
    Kevin Cools’ Smartphonegraphy book
    Alejandro Fuentes’ collaboration with British rock band Coldplay in transforming their album – Mylo Xyloto into a comic series
    Winners of the Harlem Edge competition by the Emerging New York Architects (ENYA) Committee of the American Institute of Architects in New York City.

 

And of course for our freebie of the week, we have a free UI template in PSD format which is best used for web-based programs and applications.

If you have any request of you want to help us improve the site, you may leave your request or suggestions using the comment box below. You can also drop by our Facebook, Twitter and Google Plus social profiles for more amazing design finds or just subscribe to our blog for the latest and freshest news and updates in the world of design.

Author: Cadence Wu

Cadence is You The Designer's senior blogger, and the most jack-of-all-trades of the staff. She's always trying out something different every day, some of which fuels her posts here on the blog. Let her know if you want us to post more about your favorite topic - she might know more than a thing or two about it!

