photos: Sandy destruction in Lindenhurst / Babylon (part 2) 

photos by Kurt Christensen

Since we last spoke to Kurt Christensen, he has continued to update his photo documentation of the mess Hurricane Sandy left in his Long Island town of Lindenhurst. It's not all bad though, this photo set contains images of people coming together to help others, which even in the worst of times is always a nice thing to see. Speaking of which, Patch has a list of ways people can volunteer in Babylon Village, and a list for Long Island in general.

On Saturday Kurt wrote:

    Today restored my faith in humanity. From the massive response to the food and clothing drive at the firehouse, to the random people driving around handing out hot coffee, to the local businesses and Girl Scouts handing out meals on Wellwood, to the really cool group of people I met who drove down from Huntington with a grill and a load of burgers to hand out free food down on Shore Rd. This tragedy has really brought out the best in people.

And his photos are reaching far and wide:

    After the first day these photos were up, I received a message from an Army CPT in Afghanistan who didn't know what happened to her family. I was able to visit them, and shoot a quick video of them, so they could let her know that they were all ok.

    I also received a message from a woman who didn't know the fate of her family home, so I went and checked it out for her.

    There is also a guy who reached out to me after he saw that the home his Grandfather built in the 1920's withstood the storm.

Check out the rest of this new set, below...

people helping people

Lighthouse on the Bay Restaurant

Lindenhurst Public Docks

Food & Clothing Drive at Lindenhurst Fire Station

Babylon

Food Drive at the American Legion in Babylon

and of course, waiting for gas

Check out more photos in Kurt's first set HERE.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



As a long time Lindy resident, now home owner to see my village in ruins is just devastating. However, the town is strong and unified. The endless donations I see is great - the volunteers and support just outstanding. Thank you Kurt for documenting your journey and the journey of many who are dealing with this shit.
