Steve Jobs' Yacht Revealed

Posted by samzenpus on Sunday October 28, @11:02PM
from the sail-differently dept. 

schwit1 writes "Venus, the incredible luxury yacht Steve Jobs had been designing up until his death a little over a year ago, seems to have made its first appearance as a finished product in the city of Aalsmeer in the Netherlands. Unsurprisingly, its design is breathtaking. Reportedly designed in a joint effort between Jobs himself and Philippe Starck, the stunning ship first showed up on the blog One More Thing, which posted some stills as well as a few other details. The ship is about 230 to 260 feet long, for instance, and made entirely of aluminum, which makes it particularly light. And if you had any doubt this is Steve Jobs' yacht, there are seven 27-inch iMacs in the wheelhouse. According to One More Thing's sources, the Jobs family will be present for the yacht's christening ceremony proper, thought it's unknown whether or not they intend to use it, or what its ultimate fate may be. Regardless of what may happen to her, she sure is a beauty. It's certainly a shame Steve Jobs never got the chance to see her finished."






!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS






    iSore? (1, Insightful)

    I don't know, it looks more like an iSore to me.
        Re:
        No joke... "breathtaking" in a bad way, maybe.
            1 reply beneath your current threshold.
        Re:
        More like a barge than a yacht. I guess he was going for the rectangle with rounded corners look.
            1 reply beneath your current threshold.
            1 reply beneath your current threshold.
        Re:
        Don't worry, it will use Apple Maps and crash into something in Nebraska. Yeah, that far inland, lol.
        2 replies beneath your current threshold.
    Wow (2)

    What an ugly monstrosity. Well, we know Steve was a minimalist. Look at the pictures of the bridge. No buttons!
        Where was Jonathan Ive?

        Ugly! Ugly! Ugly!

        From the looks of it, I assume that Jonathan Ive was NOT involved in the design.
    not a mac fan but (1)

    they are usually well designed. this is not.
    Definitely not an Apple product! (1)

    That is the ugliest seagoing thing I have ever seen. Job's design taste obviously didn't come from Jobs himself. He should've had his designers build models (for him to poop on) until he found one that was sleek and attractive.
        Re:
        Agreed - maybe minimalist worked on the computer, but it doesn't seem to be doing much good in the real world.
        1 reply beneath your current threshold.
    Distinctive (1)
    Kind of Frank Lloyd Wrightesque... not my impression of a ship for rough seas.
    So that's what he did... (1)
    ... with all the profit from all the overpriced iDevices.
    Ocean Air - Corrosive? (2)

    I vaguely recall that ocean air is fairly corrosive to electronics. Would they really use iMacs in a situation where they'd possibly have to be replaced frequently and possibly fail at sea? I realize the buyer will have lots of money, but it seems foolish.
    Anything that blocky can't be called sleek (2)

    Looks like the Jobs reality distortion effect persists after death!
    It's a fake. (1)

    Why yes I do. I doubt any egocentric billionaire could afford one of those $1800 27-inch iMacs, much less seven of them. Good lord, such opulence!
    That's not a yacht! (2)
    This is a yacht!
    http://diamondsyacht.com/ [diamondsyacht.com]
    My wife's comment on first sight: (2)
    At least it's not a rectangle with rounded corners, then he'd have to pay royalties to a certain company.
    I would hold off (1)
    Until the iYacht 2 comes out next year...
    Seaworthy? (2)

    Big panels of vertical glass. What happens when one of them takes a good sized wave?
    16 replies beneath your current threshold.


