Tomorrow’s (Luscious, Scrumptious!) Recipes

106 Comments Print Recipe Posted by Ree in All PW Recipes

The thirteen new episodes of Season 3 have all aired, and the new Thanksgiving episode will air November 17.

Here’s a peek!

I hope you love the Thanksgiving episode. I tried to break down the meal planning in a simple way, and I picked my very favorite dishes in the universe.

In the meantime, some “older” (like, within the last year. ha.) episodes of my show will air for those who might not have caught them the first time around.

Tomorrow’s episode is “Chocolate Day,” where in addition to seeing me looking less made up and more disheveled because I hadn’t yet learned how to do my hair or makeup for television, you’ll also catch me making some of my very favorite chocolate recipes…along with a delectable soup recipe at the end.

Here are the recipes on the show tomorrow! Click on the pics to see the step-by-step recipes. I’m also including the printables at the bottom of this post. 

Chocolate Cookie with Toppings Bar. These are so fun, and you can change up the candy/chocolate combination however you’d like. 

I also made these Chocolate Mint Truffles, which are a variation of these Sea Salt Truffles I posted a few years ago. I just added a little mint extract to the chocolate filling, then colored some coarse sugar with a tiny bit of green food coloring and sprinkled it on top for fun. 

And heavenly Pots de Crème a l’Orange, a creamy, dreamy chocolate treat that sounds a lot more fancy than it is! A cinch to make in the blender.


And, because I really needed something salt: Corn and Cheese Chowder. Ridiculously yummy. Serve it in bread bowls, serve it in regular bowls…doesn’t matter. Just serve it.

Hope you enjoy, guys!

 
Recipe: Chocolate Cookies with Toppings

Prep Time: 2 Hours    Cook Time: 10 Minutes    Difficulty: Easy    Servings: 16 

Ingredients

    2 sticks Salted Butter, Slightly Softened
    1 cup Powdered Sugar
    1 whole Egg
    2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
    2-1/2 cups Flour
    1/2 cup Cocoa Powder
    3/4 teaspoons Salt
    4 ounces, weight White Almond Bark
    4 ounces, weight Chocolate Almond Bark
    DIPPING BAR
    Pistachios, Finely Chopped
    M & M's, Slightly Chopped
    Toffee Bars, Chopped
    Assorted Nuts, Sprinkles, Candies

Preparation Instructions

For the cookies: Cream the butter with the powdered sugar. Add the egg and vanilla and mix to combine. Add the flour, cocoa powder and salt, and mix together until the dough comes together. Place plastic wrap on the surface of the dough and refrigerate for 2 hours.

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Line baking sheets with baking mats or parchment.

Roll out the cookie dough and cut out the cookies using a rectangular cookie cutter, re-rolling the scraps in order to use as much of the dough as possible. Place the cookies onto the prepared baking sheets. Bake for 7 to 9 minutes, in batches if necessary, being careful not to burn. Cookies will remain the same general size and shape after they bake.

Remove from the oven and place the cookies on a cooling rack. Allow them to cool completely.

Melt the almond barks in separate bowls in the microwave. Dip half of each cookie into the white almond bark and half into the chocolate bark. Immediately sprinkle or press toppings from the dipping bar over both sides of the cookies.

Gently set on parchment paper or another nonstick surface and allow to cool before serving.

 
 
Recipe: Chocolate Truffles with Sea Salt

Prep Time: 2 Hours    Cook Time: 15 Minutes    Difficulty: Easy    Servings: 36 

Ingredients

    8 ounces, weight (up To 9 Oz.) Good Semisweet Chocolate
    8 ounces, weight (up To 9 Oz.) Good Bittersweet Chocolate
    1 can (14 Oz) Sweetened Condensed Milk
    1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
    8 ounces, weight Meltable Milk Chocolate
    Sea Salt

Preparation Instructions

Heat dark chocolates and condensed milk in a double boiler over medium low heat until chocolate is melted. Stir—mixture will have a slight marshmallow texture. Stir in vanilla.

Remove from heat, cover and refrigerate for two hours.

Once chilled, roll in balls, then roll in melted milk chocolate coating. Sprinkle with sea salt or other fine, coarse sprinkles.

 
 
Recipe: Pots de Creme a l’Orange

Prep Time: 2 Hours    Cook Time:    Difficulty: Easy    Servings: 12 

Ingredients

    12 ounces, weight Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
    4 whole Eggs
    1 Tablespoon Grand Marnier, More To Taste
    1 dash Salt
    1 cup Very Hot Strong Coffee
    Fresh Whipped Cream, For Serving
    Thinly Sliced Orange Peel, For Garnish

Preparation Instructions

Place the chocolate chips into a blender. Crack in the eggs, then add Grand Marnier and salt. Blend for a few seconds, or until combined.

Pour the coffee in a thin stream through the blender lid until it's all added. Blend another few seconds, or until smooth.

Pour mixture into small cups or jars, then refrigerate for at least 2 hours, or until chilled and set.

Top with plenty of sweetened whipped cream, then garnish with sliced orange peel.

 
 
Recipe: Corn & Cheese Chowder

Prep Time: 15 Minutes    Cook Time: 20 Minutes    Difficulty: Easy    Servings: 12 

Ingredients

    4 Tablespoons 1/2 Stick Butter
    1 whole Onion, Chopped
    3 slices Bacon, Cut Into Pieces
    3 whole Bell Peppers, Finely Diced (red, Yellow, Orange)
    5 ears Corn, Kernels Sliced Off
    1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
    3 cups Chicken Stock Or Broth
    2 cups Half-and-half
    1 cup (heaping) Grated Monterey Jack
    1 cup (heaping) Pepper Jack
    1/3 cup Sliced Green Onions
    Bread Bowls

Preparation Instructions

In a large pot, melt butter over medium-high heat. Cook onions for a couple of minutes. Add bacon and cook for another minute or so, then add diced bell peppers and cook for a couple of minutes. Finally, add corn and cook for a minute.

Sprinkle flour evenly over the top and stir to combine. Pour in broth and stir well. Allow this to thicken for 3 or 4 minutes, then reduce heat to low. Stir in half-and-half, then cover and allow to simmer/thicken for 15 minutes or so.

Stir in cheeses and green onions. When cheese is melted and the soup is hot, check seasonings. Add salt and pepper as needed.

Ladle into hollowed out boules and serve immediately.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




GreatAunt On Friday, November 2 at 12:14 pm

I just caught this episode the other day! :)
	
Darlene On Saturday, November 3 at 9:52 am

The show is on right now. My 7-year-old daughter was watching the cookie making and said, “Mom? We can make these right? We could have people over and they could decorate them however they want…RIGHT?” HA!! A new convert!!


Diane On Friday, November 2 at 12:16 pm

Thanksgiving is my favorite holiday! I look forward to seeing your show! Blessings to you!
	


Georgia Mimi54 On Friday, November 2 at 12:30 pm

This eipsode ran last week and I thoroughly enjoyed it.

Ree, can you tell us when you will post more about stocking your pantry. You ran one entry but I am anxious to read more.

Love your site and television show – I try to watch every chance I get and record those segments I can’t be home to see.

Please keep up the good work – we love you and your delicious recipes. Can’t wait to make your “Pecan Pie that will make you cry” again this year. It received rave reviews.
	


jewel On Friday, November 2 at 12:31 pm

YUMMY!
	


JoAnn C. On Friday, November 2 at 12:37 pm

Oh CHOCOLATE, yes !
	
Cheryl Barker On Friday, November 2 at 3:20 pm

Exactly! What’s not to love about a chocolate episode? :)


Natalie, the Chickenblogger On Friday, November 2 at 12:50 pm

Holy-chocoholy!
I gotta say… thank goodness *hair-make-up-clothes for television*
is NOT on my worry list.
	


Darcie (My Modern Country) On Friday, November 2 at 12:50 pm

I just wrote my Thanksgiving menu yesterday!
	


lena On Friday, November 2 at 12:50 pm

Oh yum Oh!
I think I just became Plumpcious!
	

Annie On Friday, November 2 at 12:51 pm

I can’t wait to try the sop. It looks so delicious, and I am WAAAAYYYY excited to see this “new to me” episode tomorrow morning. I look forward all week to sitting in my jammies, drinking coffee and watching your show!
	
Alicia S, On Saturday, November 3 at 11:13 am

Annie, I think you will love this soup. I have made it about 4 times since I saw the episode. It is so hearty and filling. I use 2 cans of corn, drained, and added 1 pound of chicken breast cut into bite-size pieces (cook first and remove, leaving drippings) and also about a cup of frozen (but thawed for the recipe) hashbrowns (add with bell peppers). Had to add some meat otherwise the husband would not think of it as a complete meal. :)


Veronica On Friday, November 2 at 12:51 pm

I too just saw this episode this past weekend.
	


StacyO On Friday, November 2 at 12:58 pm

Can’t wait for the Thanksgiving episode! My kids and I all enjoy watching your show together — thank you!
	


Averie @ Averie Cooks On Friday, November 2 at 12:59 pm

Ree, that opening table setting shot is just gorgeous!

I DVR your show every week and watch it on Sat or Sun night. Cooking shows on a Sat night are my idea of a party!
	


Sharon {Shay Designs} On Friday, November 2 at 1:04 pm

All your recipes look luscious! Can’t wait to try the Corn Chowder I just printed up!
	


Kim On Friday, November 2 at 1:10 pm

Beautiful table! Are those plates Friendly Village?
	
Lisa K On Sunday, November 4 at 1:38 am

I think they are from the Spode Woodland series, I love them sooooo much!


katie On Friday, November 2 at 1:16 pm

I am SO in love with your dining room table and benches – they are awesome. :)
	


Robin W On Friday, November 2 at 1:19 pm

I have had the chance to catch any of your shows, but things are a little less hectic here, so maybe tomorrow I will see my first.
I absolutely LOVE your table and benches. It speaks of many family and friends gathering together to share food, life and love. What a statement it makes about you and your family.
Blessings,
Robin
	


Anele @ Success Along the Weigh On Friday, November 2 at 1:20 pm

How sad. A show dedicated to chocolate. :-)
	


Kelsey Jo On Friday, November 2 at 1:34 pm

Where did that table and benches come from?!! I’m in love!!!!!
	


jean On Friday, November 2 at 1:35 pm

Yum… they all look delish and that chowder sounds divine!!!!!
	


Karen On Friday, November 2 at 1:36 pm

All of your recipes look simply divine. The ones I have actually made “are” divine. I enjoy watching your show. It is so down to earth.
Can someone recommend a substitute for the grand marnier in the pots de creme? I would like to make this for Thanksgiving or Christmas.
	
Sally On Saturday, November 3 at 4:22 pm

I think almond liquier would be a good substitute for the grand marnier. It would give it a little cherry hint of flavor. I’m not a big fan of grand marinier either. Or even just a splash of vanilla extract.


Tammy Hershberger On Friday, November 2 at 1:37 pm

Wish you would have done this with last week’s recipes… I’m still trying to access the Peas & Carrots recipe on the Food Network site, and tweeted twice asking you for help in acquiring it with no response. :( Wanted to make it for my husband’s birthday dinner, but too late now.
	
Sally On Friday, November 2 at 3:56 pm

Here’s the recipe. It’s with the rest of the recipes from last week’s show:
http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/ree-drummond/peas-and-carrots-recipe/index.html


Kay Bush On Friday, November 2 at 1:40 pm

My peep and I are anxiously awaiting the Thanksgiving Special! Even though tomorrow is a repeat, we will still turn in!
	


GJahnTX On Friday, November 2 at 1:47 pm

Haven’t seen this episode before, can’t wait.
	


Lu On Friday, November 2 at 1:47 pm

Are those turkey plates?
	


Joni On Friday, November 2 at 1:47 pm

On the truffles: did you replace the vanilla extract with the mint, or use both extracts? How much mint extract should I use?

Thanks! Oh, and that chowder looks fabulous!!
	


Diane On Friday, November 2 at 1:50 pm

What an awesome meal! This all looks delicious!
	


debbie casteel On Friday, November 2 at 2:13 pm

We went trick or treating with our 3yr old granddaughter ,seems this is the best age to do everything,,,but because of Halloween I delayed making your ribeye and bleu cheese sauce with potatoes until last night,,my family loved it all ,,,no left overs and rave reviews,my sons wanted to just drink the bleu cheese sauce straight from the pot..thanks for such great recipes !! we have never been disappointed when trying any of your dishes
	


shari On Friday, November 2 at 2:20 pm

Ree, you mentioned that your season 3 episodes have aired. I have a feeling you really didn’t mean that. Did you mean they’re finished and ready to air? And that we will see reruns until then? Honey, are you tired? You should be.
	
Abby On Friday, November 2 at 2:56 pm

Im with you Shari I have recorded all of her cooking episodes and only have two seasons….I really hope she has a third coming soon all of her receipes are wonderful and just the kind of food we like in the country!!!!!!


Jan in Tn On Friday, November 2 at 2:37 pm

Chocolate is my favorite food in the world===YUMMY
	


Jody On Friday, November 2 at 2:55 pm

Hi Ree, I just wanted to tell you how scrumptious your Olive Cheese Bread is. My husband loves it and even makes it himself! We have made it 5 times in the last 2 months. He made it to take to a reunion and it was a hit. Keep up the good work and don’t forget to take care of yourself.
	


Keryl hadley On Friday, November 2 at 3:00 pm

Tried this corn cheese chowder and also the cauliflower soup, both awesome, gonna try the fettucini Alfredo, apple Betty and the truffles tonite
	

Linda On Friday, November 2 at 3:05 pm

We live in a small country town, I helped pass out candy to the local kids and enjoyed every minute about it.
	


Marge K. On Friday, November 2 at 3:27 pm

My 3 year old granddaughter was at our house and loved answering the door for the trick or treaters…she kept saying thank you when they said thank you….too cute.
	


Julie On Friday, November 2 at 3:28 pm

Hi Ree, do you know if your season 3 will be on itunes like your first two seasons were?
	


Lani On Friday, November 2 at 3:42 pm

LOVE the dining room tables and benches in the picture. Would you mind if I asked where I could find them? Thanks!
	
Morgan On Saturday, November 3 at 8:48 am

I completely agree with Lani! I would love to know where the table and benches are from! Or did Marlboro Man make those? Keep up the great work PW! I love your blog and your show!


DooTell On Friday, November 2 at 4:01 pm

THANKSGIVING! My favorite day of the year! Also the first time I ‘met’ you, Ree…on the Bobby Flay vs. TPW T-Day Throwdown. A wonderful surprise, and I’ve been a loyal fan ever since! Thanks for everything!

And might I admit here that I covet Johnson Bros. dishware…and all things toile? Yep, it’s true! ;>)
	


Mary Van Horn On Friday, November 2 at 4:39 pm

I will be sad to miss your show. Have to say I love the pic of your Thanksgiving table.
I have always loved the Spode Woodland dinnerware and it continues on my wish list.
	
DooTell On Friday, November 2 at 6:36 pm

Oh, Spode Woodland! Yes, that’s it! (I’d love to own ANY of the patterns.)


Judy Cholak On Friday, November 2 at 4:43 pm

We went out to dinner for Grammie’s birthday. Red Lobster in western Pennsylvania, where the sea food is fresh!? The company was great, the food was good, and Grammie is one happy birthday Girl!
	


Barbaral On Friday, November 2 at 5:01 pm

Ree do you mean the film crew doesn’t bring a hair and makeup person to get you ready for the show? I think you look great!
	


Chris On Friday, November 2 at 5:19 pm

I was lucky enough to catch the chocolate episode the other day – yummmmmeeee! I didn’t think you looked disheveled at all and I enjoyed it ever bit as much as all the other episodes I’ve managed to see. I’m so looking forward to tomorrow’s episode. Thanks for all the inspiration!
	


Barbara S On Friday, November 2 at 5:36 pm

I love these. Wish I would have a kitchen for Thanksgiving this year. We have been trying to close on a house since June, and might make it by mid-November. But the kitchen is a disaster, and we need to do a total remodel. I was really hoping to host Christmas for the first time ever this year- but. Well, there’s always next year! And I’ll have all these filed away for dazzling my family then!
	


Colorado Cowgirl On Friday, November 2 at 6:07 pm

That chowder is making studying very difficult, Mrs. Ree :-)
	


Goosefeathers On Friday, November 2 at 6:38 pm

Oh wow, your table all decked out for Thanksgiving is enough for me to know I’m going to love your Thanksgiving show ! Don’t know how you do all you do, girl, but I’m so glad you did this one !
	


Stacy K On Friday, November 2 at 7:02 pm

My hubs and I took our boy trick or treating He was Darth Vader, but kept telling everyone he was Star Wars- he’s four!
	

magnolia On Friday, November 2 at 7:11 pm

looking good.
	


Deelight On Friday, November 2 at 8:04 pm

Am finally going to cave in and try making pots de creme a l’orange…can’t wait to see how this experiment comes out!
	


Jackie On Friday, November 2 at 8:09 pm

I made truffles before, but it was peanut butter flavor…. it turns out very good! Now I can try making the mint ones. and chocolate! YAY!
	


Vicki S. On Friday, November 2 at 10:04 pm

You set a beautiful table. Is that Johnson Bros. “Friendly village” pattern on your dishes. Looking forward to your Thanksgiving show!
	


Cyndi Camp On Friday, November 2 at 10:37 pm

I made this chowder for my family and they loved it… I didn’t have bacon but I used a ham steak… really good!
	


Ranee On Friday, November 2 at 10:40 pm

I always look forward to your show, but I can’t wait until the Thanksgiving show. Wish I were sitting down to your table. It looks so inviting and I’m sure the food is fantastic. I love your dish pattern – the brown is so earthy and rich. Can’t wait to see it all. ;)
	


Chris Lawrence On Friday, November 2 at 11:34 pm

I gave out treats! And enjoyed seeing my 3 year old grandson loving Halloween!
	


janmaus On Saturday, November 3 at 6:50 am

Chowder looked so yummy, I’m making it today, but since I like mine a little snappy, am substituting a poblano pepper, and just 2 bells, red & yellow–I’m still thinking about 1 med. diced potato, just because chowder usually includes potatoes. The thermometer says 32, and temps that cold say something hot and stick to the ribs!!!
	


Sara in Okla On Saturday, November 3 at 7:08 am

HELP someone –I’ve recorded (and been able to watch as aired) each of this season’s
episodes, EXCEPT the one on Oct 6 – Fiesta – (we were out of town) my DVR is set for entire series, but that one did not record, all others have — and there has been no re-run of that so far — AND it’s one I especially want to see — love Mexica dishes — it’s like that episode didn’t happen on my TV?? I hoping for a re-run – why did my DVR not pick it up?? I’m technically challenged as you can tell — I love all the shows, want to see Fiesta –
	


R.J. On Saturday, November 3 at 7:20 am

My Dear, I love your blog and your cooking show. Now that I am 68, the recipes contain all the things I can’t eat. I’m lactose intolerant, gluten-free and fat-free. How about a few recipes for the rest of us? I love how you’ve invented a career for yourself. We ex-teachers call this the “sandwich technique”–two compliments holding together one constructive criticism. Cheers
	


Axelle the french cook On Saturday, November 3 at 7:48 am

I love your decoration’s table.
	


Emily @ www.main-eats.com On Saturday, November 3 at 7:49 am

WOW-that chowder looks AMAZING!!! I can’t wait to see your episode!
	


Tulip On Saturday, November 3 at 8:29 am

Chocolate! I came home from Latin American with a pound of solid, organic homemade chocolate and a pound of the same thing, but ground. What should I make with this once in a lifetime haul?
	


Sara in Okla On Saturday, November 3 at 9:11 am

My comment 2 hrs ago isn’t posted – so will try again — My DVR of the Fiesta episode on Oct 6 didn’t record – tho all others this season have — the one Sat I wasn’t home to watch, – my favorite is Mexican – that episode hasn’t been re-run yet either !! HELP !! What could have happened?? — from technically challenged Sara in Okla –
	
R.C. On Sunday, November 4 at 5:12 pm

According to the Food Network site, the “Frontier Fiesta” episode of P.W.’s show will be re-aired on November 24 at 10:30am/9:30c
Sara in Okla On Monday, November 5 at 5:58 am

R.C. Thanks — if that’s Sat after Thanksgiving, I may be away from TV — hope the DVR will work this time — I’ll try to watch it somehow — Food Network must have entered wrong “code” on original viewing of episode.


Di On Saturday, November 3 at 10:12 am

I think you looked wonderful on your Nov. 2 show! Please don’t go all Hollywood with your looks….your hair and make-up is fine! It’s you….keep it that way!
	


Maureen On Saturday, November 3 at 10:29 am

Just saw this show…!!! love chocolate, can not have it a lot ….my headaches, but…just perfect. My 17 year old boy was next to me when I was watching the show and he started asking all sort of questions about the ranch and the kids and the cattle and…….I’m glad I read your blog…..!! just love the ranch life….. God bless you!!!
	

61
Pris robichaud On Saturday, November 3 at 10:36 am

Love your hair up and away from your face. You look terrific!
	


Mitzi On Saturday, November 3 at 11:02 am

I saw the Chocolate Day episode last weekend. It’s my favorite! And I agree with Pris~ you’re hair and makeup were so pretty!
	

Lynn Rode On Saturday, November 3 at 11:04 am

The pots de creme doesn’t require cooking or baking? What about the raw eggs in it? Looks like a great recipe but concerned about the eggs. Can you answer me? Thanks!
	
Amber On Sunday, November 4 at 5:24 pm

I was wondering the same thing. Does the coffee “cook” them?
Jess B. On Monday, November 5 at 12:17 pm

mmm, i had the same thought, which is why i’m reading the comments. has anyone tried this recipe yet? no weird side effects :) ?
jess b. On Monday, November 5 at 12:29 pm

http://thepioneerwoman.com/cooking/2008/05/easy-delicious-and-yes-elegant-pots-de-creme/

answered my own q! all is mentioned in the 1st post of this recipe….and includes helpful tips!


Susiebelle On Saturday, November 3 at 11:33 am

I caught the show this morning, and you looked adorable with your updo! You need wear your hair up like that more often! Can’t wait to try your yummy chocolate recipes and the heavenly cheesy corn chowder soup. BTW, when I was visiting my 81-year-old mom in Colorado last week, we watched your program. My mom hadn’t heard of you before this, but after watching the show, she thinks you are wonderful and so down-to-earth. I called her this morning to make sure she was going to watch your show again. I had her check out your autobiography from the library to read before I left to travel back to Oklahoma. She is reading it and throughly enjoying it. Keep up the good work!
	

Martha On Saturday, November 3 at 11:35 am

Chowder recipe looks amazing .. If I used frozen corn.. How many cups do you think it would be?
	


deb c On Saturday, November 3 at 11:54 am

I made the Corn and Cheese Chowder and it was delicious! Serving it in the bread bowls made the presentation just beautiful and it is now one of our favorite recipes.
	


Amanda Usen On Saturday, November 3 at 12:27 pm

Those recipes look great! My kids will really enjoy making the candy cookies. Your subject heading gave me a start, though, because my two culinary romances are named Scrumptious and Luscious. Thanks for the adrenalin! *snort*
	


Heather On Saturday, November 3 at 12:45 pm

Hi Ree! I saw you make this on the Food Network and it looks so delicious and warm and comforting! I can’t wait to make it, but I have a question. I don’t eat pork products and was wondering if I could take the bacon out of the recipe or substitute it with something else??
	


sandy On Saturday, November 3 at 12:50 pm

I am watching this show right now, out here in Oregon. I am really looking forward to making Corn and Cheese Chowder for my grown daughter!!!
	


Susan S On Saturday, November 3 at 1:56 pm

I am definitely going to try the cheese and corn chowder, it looks great! By the way what is the name of the silverware that is in the new photo of the soup bowl? It’s beautiful. Love your show, keep it up!
	


LindaS On Saturday, November 3 at 3:03 pm

Can I come for dinner? You have so many fascinating recipes. Being a Texas myself, I am a big fan of your tv show.
	


Jo-Anne On Saturday, November 3 at 3:12 pm

So many yummy looking foods…………….those chocolate cookies bar look so nice……..
	


Carissa @ Pretty/Hungry On Saturday, November 3 at 3:38 pm

I’m so glad because for some reason I missed your Mexican food episode. My DVR didn’t record it!

Can’t wait for the Thanksgiving episode :)
	
Nicole On Saturday, November 3 at 8:13 pm

Somehow my DVR did not record this new episode? And my dVR didn’t record the Mexican food episode either. Wonder what’s happened?
Sara in Okla On Saturday, November 3 at 10:21 pm

Carissa — the same thing happened to me — DVR didn’t record Festia episode — Mexican is my favorite — maybe glitch in Food Network studio?. They should at least re-run it for us –


Joni H On Saturday, November 3 at 3:52 pm

Thanks for adding inspiration to my recipe rotation! My husband and kiddos look forward to me trying a weekly PW recipe! Next up…. corn chowder! I do hope you will be doing a Christmas episode….
	


Tammy On Saturday, November 3 at 5:50 pm

Hi Ree,
Love your blog. Just 2 questions about this yummy soup…can you just use frozen corn and if so how much and also can you omit the pepperjack cheese? (Can’t do spicy)
Thanks so much!
	


Paula P. On Saturday, November 3 at 6:11 pm

i thought you looked great in this episode, Ree. This is the third time I’ve seen this ep and each time I see it I’ve had to make the cookies. They are so good!
	


Kim On Saturday, November 3 at 7:15 pm

Made the corn chowder tonight. Awesome. Perfect for a cold fall day. I didn’t have any pepperjack on hand, so I threw in a can of green chilies with cheddar jack. Still delicious.
	


Nicole T On Saturday, November 3 at 8:23 pm

Ree! Hope your reading these posts- I too have the same problem where my DVR is set to record all your episodes and it didn’t record your Fiesta Mexican food episode and didn’t record this Saturday’s episode, Nov. 3 !!!! I’m so confused and get so sad if I miss an episode cause I very much look forward to watching your episodes. Do you know why some of us have missed both the same episodes? Please please please rerun those episodes cause I’m always searching for it but it hasn’t rerun :( please help!
	
R.C. On Sunday, November 4 at 5:22 pm

The “Frontier Fiesta” episode of P.W.’s show will be re-aired on November 24 at 10:30am/9:30c.No schedule yet for the re-airing of the “Chocolate Day” episode.


BJM2009 On Saturday, November 3 at 9:02 pm

Okay…this is totes off topic, but Ree ( and chili lovers) has to know about these babies. I stopped by the local Asian Supermarket for supplies and these were on the door special stack:

Sriracha Peas!

Oh my word!

Spicy, garlicky and crunchy!

http://www.amazon.com/Hapi-Snacks-Sriracha-Garlic-Coated/dp/B002VC5JDI/ref=pd_sim_sbs_gro_2

The perfect addition to your snack/nibbly bits rotation…good with a cold brewski or a chewy red.

Did I mention that I am hooked on Wasabi Peas? These are even better!..of course I bought a giant bag of wasabi peas too. *G*

PS Ree, I looked for your Amazon portal/link but couldn’t find it, feel free to replace yours with mine, it’s your traffic!
	


Cheryl G On Saturday, November 3 at 9:33 pm

I absolutely love that soup!!!
	


Clara Edman On Saturday, November 3 at 9:37 pm

As usual I missed your show. (It is on at a ridiculously early hour here in California). I would really like to see the shirt / top you were wearing a week ago on your show.
	


Clara Edman On Saturday, November 3 at 9:43 pm

Chocolate is on the very bottom of foods to eat. My brother is allergic to chocolate (gets severe headaches from eating the stuff as did my mother). Please make stuff with caramel or something. Would appreciate it.
	


Meglo On Sunday, November 4 at 12:44 am

OH Can’t wait for Thanksgiving episode! LOVED rewatching today’s CHOCOLATE feast! It’s one of my all time faves!
	


Maria On Sunday, November 4 at 8:18 am

The Corn and Cheese Chowder is delicious! Subsituted frozen corn (it was what I had on hand), and added some left over chicken and got rave reviews from my husband and son! Adding it to my recipe rotation!
	

Maria R On Sunday, November 4 at 9:22 am

The Corn and Cheese Chowder was absolutely delicious! Used frozen corn (that is what I had on hand) and some left over chicken to make it more of a main meal and got rave reviews from my husband and son. It will be a welcome addition to my recipe rotation. I love that you can adapt your recipes a little and still get amazing results.
	

Kim On Sunday, November 4 at 11:53 am

I really enjoy your website and have long before your Food Network show. I’d like to watch it but unfortunately I can’t without getting motion sickness. Like most Food Network shows these days, the camera is constantly moving up-down-side-side-back-forth-up-down-back-forth-side-down-up-you-get-the-motion-sickness-picture. An action adventure cooking show doesn’t promote cooking, eating or the Food Network. Love your site; just wish Food Network wouldn’t approach every show they produce in the style of The Fast and the Furious.
	
SheilaK On Sunday, November 4 at 8:56 pm

Kim I agree 100%. I have said I need a Dramamine to watch the show because of the choppy editing. (Hand, bowl, face, bowl, face, bowl, truck, face…etc. all in 5 seconds) Please slow down and pull the camera back!

Kristina A On Sunday, November 4 at 12:52 pm

Hey where is that recipe for the messy, fold-over apple pie? We went to Julian and have so many apples! I need that recipe please!
	

Helen On Sunday, November 4 at 7:55 pm

I love watching your show! I especially like how you make yummy, down to earth foods from everyday ingredients. I can’t wait to try the recipes from the Chocolate episode. May you and your family have a Happy Thanksgiving!
	

Karen On Sunday, November 4 at 8:55 pm

We just upgraded to cable again on Thursday, and I immediately had my hubby put PW on the DVR recording list. Saturday was my first time seeing your show and I loved it! That corn chowder had my mouth watering, so I decided to make it for supper Saturday night. I’m happy to say that it turned out awesome, and hubs AND the kids loved it! Thanks for a great recipe!
	

jeri On Sunday, November 4 at 9:16 pm

So looking forward to your Thanksgiving show. Is that a big old mac and cheese I see?
	

Kimberly On Monday, November 5 at 7:13 am

Can you tell me where you bought your Farmhouse table from??? I’m in need of one just like it! Please and Thank You!! :0)
	


TammyLee On Monday, November 5 at 7:54 am

I am coming to see you today!! Actually gonna stand in line for a long time to do it, too!! I don’t do lines for just anything/anyone, you know?!! Well, you probably didn’t know, but you do now!! ;) See ya in Decatur!
	

Kathy On Monday, November 5 at 8:52 am

Wow, now I am even more ready for the holidays and cold weather. I will be able to use the sweetie recipes many times over the season. The chowder is a staple. Thanks!
	

kathym On Monday, November 5 at 10:06 am

I made this Saturday evening…and all I can is WOW, WOW, WOW!!!!!!
I added a big cup of fresh roasted green chiles and it was gone before it hit the table!
	


Christine B from Michigan On Monday, November 5 at 10:17 am

I tried the cheese and corn chowder this weekend. Did not have the half and half so I used milk. It was not as thick as the photo, but still DELICIOUS! Thank you for the recipe.
	

laurah On Monday, November 5 at 11:31 am

Anything in a bread bowl!!!!!!
	

Vicki Patton On Monday, November 5 at 12:02 pm

I tried the corn chowder this weekend. A keeper for sho!!! I substitute half and half for one can evaporated milk and the rest of the two cups was 2% milk. I used slices of Pepper Jack with Jalapeno and shredded monterey/cheddar cheese. Also, I used one small bag of frozen corn and one can of whole kernal corn- drained. Served it in Fiestaware bowls with Italian seasoned bread. Thank you so much for this recipe!
	

Mrs. Morgan On Monday, November 5 at 3:56 pm

So glad this episode was on and Mr. Morgan saw it. Sunday he told me he couldn’t get that chowder off his mind. So I made it Sunday evening, THANK YOU!
	

BreannaS On Monday, November 5 at 4:23 pm

Oh Ree I just love your show! I wanted to come to your book signing in Kansas City Saturday but mommy duty called. My oldest was trying out for the district junior high band; sadly he didn’t make it this year. Hopefully I can see you the next time you have a signing in KC. Hope you got lots of twizzlers they are my favorite non chocolate candy as well.
	

Bianca @ Life Measures On Monday, November 5 at 4:27 pm

Love, love, love that long farm style table! And any dessert that comes in a jar is an instant favorite for me! :)
	

