2012 llf celebration of hope gala.

Don’t Miss the 2012 Celebration of Hope Gala
tickets are on sale now! 
(ticket prices go up Sept 12th)
The gala is on Saturday, September 22nd at Solera in Minneapolis. 

Auction items include:  Tickets to the Twins vs. the Yankees, MN Swarm Tickets, MN Timberwolves Tickets, St. Paul Saints Tickets, 1 hour of ice time on the Minnesota Wild Rink,  Tickets to the Guthrie, Park Square Theatre, Jungle Theater, Children’s Theatre, Semester of Early Childhood Music Classes at MacPhail Center for Music, 7 course tasting menu at Corner Table, collection of 6 rarely imported Italian Red Wines rated 90+ from Vinport.com, an iPad, an Apple TV, 2 passes to a cooking class with renowned chef Serena Bass, private cooking class for up to 12 to learn how to make donuts galore from Lisa Clark of Mojo Monkey Donuts and SO MUCH MORE!!

New this year – we will have electronic bidding so you can make sure you get all the auction items you are dreaming of without having to stay glued to the bidding tables.  Each guest will have their own iPod Touch to use throughout the evening.  Yes, it will even alert you when you’ve been outbid.  

The evening will feature silent and live auctions, exciting live entertainment, cocktails (one with your ticket + a cash bar), dinner, dessert and an opportunity to give hope to those in need.  Look at how much fun we had last year!

We want to see YOU and your friends at this year’s Celebration of Hope! Help give hope to families in need!

Don’t wait to buy your tickets.  Ticket prices go up September 12th.

For those not in Minnesota we will have an online auction featuring many fabulous items!  Stay tuned for details.

Have an auction item you want to give?   Please go here and fill out the form to donate or contact Lindsay at lindsay@thelizlogelinfoundation.org.
 
Also, help us win a grant from Chase! Simply click here and vote via Facebook! You can only vote once! Thanks for your support…




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Alex
    Posted 9/11/2012 at 2:36 pm 

    It always makes me smile to see this. It’s such a beautiful way to honor your wife, and eventually, for Madeline to honor her mother. Happy Birthday to Liz. She’d be just 35, right? So young. I can only imagine how proud she’d be.
    Pat Miller
    Posted 9/15/2012 at 5:15 pm 

    don’t claim to know how it feels to lose a wife after the birth of a child. But carry on with your life! you will never forget the mother of your child or what you two have been through. Marry Brook if you love her and move forward!
    Gretchen in the HB
    Posted 9/19/2012 at 9:02 am 

    Loving the most recent Amoeba elevator picture! I hope this weekend is full of wonderful memory makin’ and lots of fundraising!
    Samantha Munn
    Posted 9/20/2012 at 12:30 pm 

    Im a 13 year old girl and I loved your heartbreaking yet inspiring book. Im reading it for a memoir project for my 8th grade honors english class. I live in Yucipa California and go to L.A. every month to visit family. I just wanted to let you know that your story really touched me. I hope you are doing well with Maddy. And even though im so young I have expirienced death in the family and I know how hard it can be. Oh, and Maddy is one of the most adorable toddlers I have ever seen, just from the pictures in the back of the book I can see how gorgeous Liz was. Maddy looks alot like her. I think its awesome that you go shopping with Maddy and if I passed I would want my future husband to go shopping with my daughter. Even though I dont know you, you seem like an amazing person.(:
    Robin
    Posted 9/23/2012 at 7:30 am 

    Hello Matt,
    I’m wondering how to access the LLF online auction that usually happens this time of year? I can’t seem to find info on the website. Can let me know if it’s happening and if it is, please send a link to it?
    Thank you so much!Have fun at the Gala weekend!
    Robin Yaeger
    Antonia
    Posted 9/29/2012 at 5:20 pm 

    Did the online auction already happen?
    Katlyn-Noel E.Looney
    Posted 10/8/2012 at 3:03 am 

    Hi my name is Katlyn-noel,I read your book it was so good . I am leading it to a freind. I am writing you cause i kinda know what Maddy is going to go through , I grew up with out a mom to , and grandparents . But As long as i have my dad i will be ok. I guess i amdwriteing you because , as long as Maddy has you , and her mom love in her heart she will be just fine. P.S. No mader what Maddy do when or say when she is a teenager know she will always love you ad her mom.
    Leah Anderson
    Posted 10/11/2012 at 12:26 pm 

    Hi Matt, It would really be nice to have an update on how the event went.
    Chris
    Posted 10/12/2012 at 8:00 am 

    I keep coming back to see an update on the LLF gala and fund raiser. How did it go? How are you and Brooke, you haven’t mentioned her in awhile I hope all is okay. I feel like I know you personally and I care about you. Hope that doesn’t sound weird. I come to your site everyday to check in.
    Lisa
    Posted 10/17/2012 at 8:46 am 

    Matt, Where have you been? I keep checking to see if you have any new posts and there are none…
    :( . I cant be the only one who misses you…… Please post an update on things sometime soon. xoxo- Lisa


