PubCon 2012 Las Vegas Coverage, Day Three Afternoon

by Pearl Higgins on 10/18/2012 • 2 Comments | Internet Marketing Conferences

Well this is it everyone. We hope that if you were here, you enjoyed PubCon as much as we did, and if you weren’t, we hope that you enjoyed living vicariously through our coverage. In case you are just tuning in now, we’ve got coverage for the first day, and the second day up too, with great tips and takeaways from industry pros.
PubCon Las Vegas 2012, Thursday, October 18th

Proactive Link Campaign Tactics:

Todd Malicoat sums it up pretty well, “Link is to SEOs, what snow is to Eskimos. Both have so many varieties and meanings.” There is no one link fix, as you build your link campaign, you need a broad link profile and a creative approach that keeps diversity in mind.  While social media and content marketing may be your prime focuses post-penguin, you can still have an interesting approach to link building within either category.  

Social Media Automation Tools:

The social media automation panel presented insights and tools on spending more time automating social responses and less time listening. The key to social automation is a blend of finding the right recipe of tools to increase productivity, expanding your social reach and creating messaging unique to each audience.

Twittersphere Customer Service Strategies:

Winning at Twitter customer service is dependent on putting the effort in beyond the Twittersphere. There are practices that you can take that keep your interactions on Twitter polite and engaging, but if you are not mirroring that in your other customer service channels, Twitter can just become a spot for your customers to air grievances.

 

Well that’s it everyone. Thanks again to Michael Dorausch for providing some great photos, and to the speakers for providing such great tips, tactics, and educational tidbits. See you all next year!
Share this post




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Gregg N. on 10/26/2012 at 12:49 PM said:

Great post Pearl, I especially enjoyed the bit about Proactive Link Campaign Tactics and how you can put together links just as creatively with content and social media. The hardest part about the linking is how much or how little to post, what are your thoughts on that? Thanks again!
Reply ↓
Pearl Higgins on 10/29/2012 at 2:07 PM said:

Thanks Gregg,
The panelists covered some approaches to a Proactive Link Campaign that are really useful, it was a great session. I agree that the content itself can sometimes be the hardest part of linkbuilding. I just try to remember that the goal should be to add value for the audience, and that helps guide a lot of the other questions that pop up. Thanks for reading!

