
3 Reasons to Keep Going to Open Houses After You Purchase
Date:November 2, 2012 | Category:Tips & Advice | Author:Brendon DeSimone

Years ago, after closing on your American Dream with a 30-year fixed loan, you probably didn’t think much about the home’s value until you were ready to sell. Today, there’s so much more information available to home buyers. Markets move quickly, and life happens a lot faster.

And so, many people have become hyper-aware of their real estate investments, frequently watching the rise and fall of market values well after the close. Listing e-mails flow daily, and the Zillow app likely sits prominently on many homeowners‘ smartphones and tablets. Good real estate agents compile “mini CMAs” (Comparative Market Analysis) for their past clients, too, updating them yearly on the latest comps and values.

While it helps to be mindful of your home’s value, you shouldn’t obsess over it. A better strategy is to stay abreast of the local real estate market, just as you’d keep an eye on any long-term investment. Have an idea what’s selling and what’s not. Know what the trends and changes are in your neighborhood, school district or town.

One of the best ways to do this is to go to open houses. Here are three reasons why.
You can learn a lot from listing agents

Open houses aren’t just for buyers. Often, would-be sellers and nearby homeowners represent a large portion of open house traffic. Use the open house not only to see what’s for sale and the price of comparable homes but also to learn about the market. Pick the brain of the listing agent to get his or her take on what’s happening in your area. Real estate agents tend to be aware of market changes well before the mainstream press.
You’ll stay current with the latest home design trends

Sellers generally put their best foot forward. Some go as far as making cosmetic updates or design/staging changes before putting their homes on the market. They likely rely on their real estate agent to suggest the latest and greatest in the market. So if you bought a home that needs updating, or you aren’t sure where to begin when it comes to choosing paint colors, countertops or bath fixtures, going to open houses will allow you to see styles and designs.
You can get referrals for local real estate specialists, contractors or designers

Want to be connected to a good local designer or contractor? Ask the real estate agent selling the home you liked if they can get you the contact information. Though getting referrals from friends is also a good idea, seeing the finished product in an open house can inspire you to replicate what that owner did and how they did it.
Never forget: Your home is an investment

Ultimately, the property you’ve purchased is your home. You should make remodeling or upgrade choices according to your wishes, without forgetting that your home is also an investment. Try to find a balance between whatever personal choices you have in mind and what might appeal to potential buyers down the road. For example, painting a room a dark red color or choosing highly taste-specific fixtures or designs may appeal to your taste buds — but will likely alienate a potential buyer down the road. Of course, it’s not uncommon for homeowners to make last-minute changes to their home to make it “market ready.”

Related:

    How to Buy a Home Below Current Real Estate Value
    5 Tips for Approaching the Open House
    How to Buy or Sell a Home That’s off the Market

Brendon DeSimone is a Realtor and one of the nation’s leading real estate experts. He has collaborated on multiple real estate books, and his expert advice is regularly sought out by print, online and television media outlets like FOX News, CNBC and Forbes. An avid investor, Brendon owns real estate around the U.S. and abroad and is licensed to sell in two states. You can find Brendon online or follow him on Twitter and Google +

Note: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the opinion or position of Zillow.

