Buyers Are Bringing Color Back
Date:November 2, 2012 | Category:Tips & Advice | Author:Roslyn Ashford 

It’s not uncommon for interior designers and stagers to offer color consultations to homeowners who are struggling with white and unpainted walls. It’s a great way to start a relationship with a potential design client and for the homeowner to “test” out working with an interior designer.

Home buyers recently have been requesting color consultations, too, for a combination of reasons:
Timing is everything

The perfect time to have the walls painted is before any furniture is moved in. Buyers who have contracts on homes but haven’t quite closed yet still want to get started on their decor. In many cases they already have furniture, art and accessories that inspire the wall color for the new home.
Global influence

Buyers are inspired by art, decorative pieces and area rugs selected while traveling and want to highlight their experiences in their home. Art and area rugs are fabulous ways to inspire a room’s wall color and overall palette. Additionally, more global textiles and fabrics are making their way to national home furnishing retailers, and these warm and bold colors are subtly influencing color in the home.
Beyond walls and furniture

Color is more prevalent in design these days, and buyers are starting to have more confidence about using it in their homes. We’re not sure that the avocado fridge is making a comeback, but we are definitely seeing more color being offered in home products — from kitchen sinks to large appliances — as well as continued encouragement about painting the walls from various home design television shows and displays at various hardware stores.

If you’re fortunate to be a buyer or just want your home to feel new, add some color to those walls and “break out of your beige haze!”

Related:

    Showcase Art to Brighten Your Home
    Decluttering Your Home for the Real Estate Market
    Extend Your Living Space Into Your Backyard

Roslyn Ashford, MBA, is a former corporate recruiter turned home stager, and native Washingtonian (as in DC). She hosts a bi-weekly tweet chat for home stagers and loves to stage small and vacant homes. Learn more about her growing company here or follow her on Twitter to keep up with the daily hilarity!

Note: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the opinion or position of Zillow.
