November 5, 2012, 4:00 pm
When Hospital Patients Continue to Smoke
By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

Not so long ago, smoking was almost commonplace in many hospitals.

“I have vivid memories of clusters of men sharing cigarettes in the shabby bathroom at Boston City Hospital during the 1960s,” writes Dr. Steven A. Schroeder, a professor at the University of California, San Francisco, in an editorial in the latest issue of Archives of Internal Medicine. A new study in the journal found that one in five smokers admitted to hospitals continue to smoke during their stay. “Cigarettes were sold in hospital canteens, and many hospital directors in the 1970s and ’80s were chain smokers,” Dr. Schroeder adds.

Regulations enacted in the early ’90s have made cigarette smoke in hospital corridors a thing of the past, and since then smoking rates among health care workers have declined. Some hospitals even refuse to hire smokers. But smokers — many of them patients — continue to light up near entranceways, patios or elsewhere on hospital grounds.

“This is a persistent problem,” said Susan Regan, an instructor in the department of medicine at Harvard’s medical school and an author of the new study. Smoking can impair wound healing and delay recovery from cardiopulmonary disease. And medical administrators say it can affect hospital efficiency, forcing nurses, security guards and other staff to enforce smoking regulations and corral patients instead of focusing on other tasks.

“There’s been some evidence that staff are unwilling to confront patients and visitors who are smoking where they shouldn’t be,” Dr. Regan said. “It’s a difficult issue.”

Previous studies reported that roughly a quarter of smokers continue their habits during their stays, but most of that research was carried out more than a decade ago. Dr. Regan and her colleagues wanted to gauge whether recent declines in the overall prevalence of smoking, as well as more widespread use of nicotine replacement therapies and stricter rules against smoking on hospital campuses, had had any effect on the number of patients who smoke while in hospitals.

The researchers looked at more than 5,000 smokers who were hospitalized at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston for various reasons between 2007 and 2010, all of whom received cessation counseling during their stays. (Those who refused to even discuss counseling were excluded from the study, a factor that could have influenced the findings.) They found that about 18 percent of those patients continued smoking during their stays.

Not surprisingly, people were less likely to step outside to smoke during the winter months. Those who had longer hospital stays were most likely to continue smoking, while those who expressed a desire to quit, were 50 or older or were admitted for cardiac problems, were most likely to abstain.

“Cardiac patients were probably less likely to smoke because they’re more motivated to quit by their hospitalizations,” Dr. Regan said. “The people who were not interested in quitting were the most likely to head out.”

Dr. Regan cautioned that while the rate of smoking among hospital patients appears to be on the decline in Massachusetts, that may not be the case elsewhere. The state has one of the lowest rates of smoking in the country — about 15 percent — behind only California and Utah, she said. Mass General Hospital also has an aggressive tobacco cessation program, in which patients who smoke are routinely offered counseling at their bedsides along with nicotine replacement therapies to help manage cravings and withdrawal.

Dr. Regan conceded that there are limits to eliminating smoking during hospital stays. Studies show that even when bans are strictly enforced, determined patients just leave the property to smoke. A helpful option, she said, is to have in place at all hospitals a system that identifies smokers during their admission, so that trained staff can focus attention on helping them deal with cravings and provide cessation treatments.

In his accompanying editorial, Dr. Schroeder of the U.C.S.F. acknowledged the importance of hospital cessation programs. He also pointed out one of the more interesting findings from the study: The intensity of cravings was a better predictor of whether patients would smoke during hospitalization than the number of cigarettes they typically smoked.

“Given the recent trend among smokers to smoke fewer cigarettes,” he wrote, “we will likely be seeing more and more hospitalized smokers who do not experience nicotine withdrawal but who should still be counseled about quitting.”
