Bangalore: Girl smilingly admits to killing fiancee, arrested IBN Bangalore, Updated Nov 06, 2012 at 07:54pm IST
IBN7

Bangalore: A young girl in Bangalore was on Tuesday accused of killing her fiancee over reasons that are yet unclear. The police say that the girl, identified as Saumya, hatched a conspiracy to kill him after she noticed "a change in behaviour" in her fiancee Nitesh.

The police say that Saumya took help from one of her friends to kill Nitesh who lived in Rajajinagar. Nitesh's body was found outside the city on October 21. The police got some evidence from the spot where the 25-year-old software engineer's body was found.

The police recovered a mobile phone and the call records revealed crucial details about the murder, on the basis of which Saumya was arrested. According to the police, Saumya, a student of psychology, smiled as she confessed to having killed Nitesh. The police said that Saumya did not look repentant in the least. 

Saumya reportedly met Nitesh on Facebook and the two slowly came close, before getting engaged. Saumya, however, said that Nitesh resigned from his job a few days ago and there was a noticeable change in his behaviour too.

Saumya said that this created suspicion in her mind and she decided to investigate. On October 21, Saumya took Nitesh to Shilindra Doddi, on the outskirts of Bangalore, on the pretext of spending time together. There she gave him vodka mixed with ammonium sulphate. Police claim that Saumya believed that Nitesh would speak the truth under its influence. However, Nitesh started vomiting due to an overdose.

Saumya panicked and stuffed paper napkin in his mouth, as a result of which Nitesh was rendered unconscious. Saumya said she decided to kill him off and then called her friend Parsavanath. They reportedly crushed his head with a stone to hide his identity.

However, the police say that a hair clip belonging to Saumya was left behind at the murder scene which the police found. Moreover, the mobile found near Nitesh's body showed that the last call was made to Saumya following which the police arrested her and her friend.

(For updates you can share with your friends, follow IBNLive on Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and Pinterest)
