Instagramming Portugal
Posted on September 28th, 2012 • 18 Comments
Categories Food, Photo Essays, Portugal

As I predicted in my last post, the past few weeks have been a whirlwind. Since I finished the book and announced the launch event in New York, I’ve visited Portugal, Ireland and Spain – and have just landed in the UK for a week with my brother. I will write more about Portugal’s Douro Valley  - which was stunning – and about the origins of port. But for the moment, I wanted to share some quick photos from my week in the country.

I only joined Instagram in May, after Kirsten Alana foisted her old iPhone 3GS upon me. Before that, I was still using an old Blackberry smartphone. I still use the Blackberry for email, since I was grandfathered into a flat-rate unlimited worldwide email plan that has come in handy more times than I can count. (I’m also shocked that the Blackberry is still working. It has been peed on by a goat in Mongolia, teargassed in Thailand and covered in sand in the Sahara in Morocco. I’ve also dropped it more times than I can count.)   Kirsten gave me an Instagram crash course and set me loose with what isn’t a great camera, but remains a wonderful tool to share my travels in a fresh way. I’ve been using Instagram throughout the fall and summer in North America, but sharing on-the-go photos is always more fun from far-flung places. It doesn’t compare to my wonderful Olympus EP-3 camera, which I usually use with a 20mm Panasonic pancake lens, but tended to stick to the kit lens (14mm-42mm) for this trip given the landscapes. But the newer iPhones certainly come much closer. I’m debating upgrading to a newer iPhone given that the 5 has come out, if only because it’s become the camera that replaces a camera.

I digress.

Portugal! A country with a very interesting history, declared independent by a young king who defied (and then fought) his mother to wrestle control of his lands away from the Kingdom of León in 1139. From the ashes of these first battles, the country rose to prominence in trade and colonization in the 15th century, and then unspooled once Napoleon marched through Spain to invade Portugal in 1807. In between, a massive earthquake struck Lisbon in 1755, and the thriving city was razed to the ground.

Of course these photos – or my minuscule time in the country – do not do its history or its biodiversity justice.  I did not realize how varied the climates were within Portugal but there was a significant temperature change even from Porto into the Northern Douro Valley.  The country grows a significant amount of cork trees and oak, as well as delicious eucalyptus (one of my favourites).  The steep slopes of the Douro River have created a microclimate perfect for growing olives, almonds and – of course – grapes.

We spent many hours driving the dizzying narrow roads that trace the river’s edge, our mini-bus chugging around hairpin turns as we climbed up to the quintas (farms or estates) built at the top of the Douro’s slopes.

To start: the mini photos that made me smile.

And the rest:

More photos to come (taken with the EP-3) but this was a short taste (ha, ha, I make myself laugh) of the wine and port-filled week in Portugal.

-Jodi



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




On September 28, 2012 at 9:18 am kyh said:

stunning pictures! well, portugal is one country that i would love to visit. many people seem to give this great country a miss in their grand european tour, but imo it’s got everything a traveller is after – coastlines, beaches, history, wine, culture, everything! :D

On September 28, 2012 at 10:14 am Cat of Sunshine and Siestas said:

Love the picture of the boat! I was bummed to miss out on all of the post-conference trips, since they looked like a lot of fun! For being so close to Portugal from my base in Seville, I really don’t know much of the countyr. the short trip to Porto made me want to see more!

On September 28, 2012 at 11:37 am Carmel said:

Congratulations! I spent about 8 hours in the Porto train station. I wish we had wandered instead of just sitting there…Oh well, next time.

You always look so cute. Do you still consider yourself a “backpacker”?


    On September 29, 2012 at 12:37 pm Jodi Ettenberg said:

    Thanks Carmel! The dress is a $12 special from H&M, so while I appreciate the compliment, it certainly didn’t take much work :) I recently changed my about page to reflect the fact that I’m travelling more and more for business and less for backpacking. Reality is that I do want to stay put more and work on the site and on the other things I’m building, and use that place as a base for more adventurous travels. It’s half and half, I think, and has been since about midway through 2011.
    

On September 28, 2012 at 1:11 pm Roxanne said:

These are beautiful, Jodi — I love how giddy you look receiving the award! Seeing you pop u on my Instagram feed is always assurance that something beautiful is about to come into my day!

On September 28, 2012 at 4:31 pm Jennifer said:

Congratulations on the Destinology Travel Bloggy! I really like iPhoneography and have been very pleased since finally giving up my own BlackBerry back in February of this year. I would upgrade!


    On September 29, 2012 at 12:37 pm Jodi Ettenberg said:

    Thanks lady! I’m thinking about it seriously. Seems a worthy investment, to be sure. Looking forward to the next time our paths cross.
    
        On September 30, 2012 at 7:14 am Cheryl said:

        Lovely photos from Portugal! They make me want to travel back just for the food and drink alone.

        I just upgraded to the iPhone last June and I’ve become addicted to taking Instagram photos. :)
        

On September 29, 2012 at 2:47 pm Randy Johnson said:

Always a delight to travel vicariously through your posts. That “View from the bost” photo really exceptional. I think it’s the ripples in the water that really draw me in. Quite like a photorealism oil painting. Congrats on another award as well.

On September 29, 2012 at 2:48 pm Alexandra said:

I love passion fruit flowers… Such alien creatures!

On October 1, 2012 at 10:43 am Jeremy Branham said:

I love Portugal. It’s one of my favorite countries in Europe. However, I haven’t had the chance to visit Porto but I love Port – yummy!

On October 3, 2012 at 7:39 am Krisabele Ricamonte said:

Your pictures are stunning! They make me want to visit Portugal.

On October 5, 2012 at 6:35 am Marv.n.Jo said:

These look amazing for being shot from an Iphone 3G. No doubt a testament to your skill as a photographer after all these years traveling. Thanks for sharing Jodi!

On October 18, 2012 at 3:28 pm Leyla Giray said:

Your photos are always fantastic – but this iPhone and Instagram world has me curious. Tonight is my Blackberry’s last night. Tomorrow I get my brand new iPhone 5 (my first iPhone!) and I plan to follow in your and Kirsten’s steps.

Someone asked me to take a picture of them with an iPhone the other day, handed the thing to me – and I couldn’t find the shutter. So I should be a pro in no time! :-)

On November 1, 2012 at 12:49 pm Sandra said:

Hi Jodi,
Love your website – what a great spirit you have! Thanks for sharing your adventures with all of us.

About Portugal I am afraid to say I am not such a fan! Your photos are beautiful and the people are sweet but they have a real problem with treating animals well, especially dogs. I don’t know if you noticed but there are many stray dogs in the streets, malnourished and feared for no reason.

I was in Northern Portugal last July travelling with my beautiful Rhodesian not knowing that shepherds put some extremely aggressive poisons in many remote, wild and beautiful places to keep the foxes away. My dog ate some poison and died a few hours later. Needless to say it was completely traumatic! The vet told me it’s common, that they see at least 20 cases a month and have tried to educate farmers to no avail.

Anyways, I don’t want to spoil your beautiful work and blog just actually want to make sure people are alerted of this problem so they can take the proper precautions when travelling with pets. I wish I had known!

All the best and keep safe!

Sandra


    On November 2, 2012 at 3:35 am Jodi Ettenberg said:

    Thank you for sharing your thoughts, Sandra. There’s no question that many places have different standards of treatment for people and for animals, many of which do not jive with our own upbringing or philosophies. It’s always very hard to reconcile the beauty of a place with the darker undercurrents, especially when they are not well known. I did not see any dogs during my time there at all, but I was only in Portugal for a week. I will definitely be on the look out for future visits, and expat forums will likely offer volunteer options for animal rescue/care centres too. I’m very sorry to hear about your dog – that’s awful. :(

