
BikeSnob: A Dick About Sandy Relief
by David Schloss
November 5, 2012 · 7:17 PM


Normally I don’t pay a lot of attention to Bike Snob anymore, he sort of jumped the shark a few years ago and devolved from funny bike culture critique into self-unaware parody when he started writing for the biggest cycling magazine in the world.

But as a resident in one of the states hit hard by Hurricane Sandy, I was trolling for news on relief efforts and found that Bike Snob is still a dick.

The locally loved Bicycle Habitat (which has a shop in Manhattan and one in Brooklyn) is organizing a cargo-bike ride to bring needed supplies to the Rockaways and asking anyone who is available on Tuesday November 6th (Election Day - when many have off) to help them caravan supplies.

Seems pretty wonderful to me (especially since gas is in short supply here) but Bike Snob thinks it’s uncool to help people who have lost their homes, their possessions and their livelihoods and asks instead…

    After voting tomorrow, do you have a bunch of time to kill? If so you can head over to Bicycle Habitat in Brooklyn and help portage (“portage” is pretentious for “schlep”) supplies out to Far Rockaway, and here are the details:

He then goes on to refer to a Gran Fondo ride in Miami as being less “smug” than helping people who quite literally are dying from the cold.

My grandparents lived in Brooklyn all of their lives. Before my grandfather died and my grandmother moved nearer to my home town to be close to my mom they lived in the Rockaways. And they’d have been thrilled, touched and possibly kept alive by people bringing supplies on bikes.

Look, I don’t like to curse on a blog like Bike Hugger, but I’m so disgusted and sickened by the thought that a pretentious dickhead who has made his living lambasting the very same culture that’s provided that living is now making fun of people for helping out. F bombs are going off in my head as my vision turns red.

Here’s hoping that lots of “smug” people show up at the Bicycle Habitat ride and move tons of supplies to the Rockaways, and here’s hoping that Snob never finds himself in need of salvation from someone with a bike. Because the smugness of the help might be too much for him.


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Tyler Stambaugh
November 5, 2012 · 8:23 PM

Do you think anyone will show up to schlep supplies that may have only read about it on his blog?  I think he promoted the event in a particular way that a particular audience gets.  Portage this.

Champs
November 5, 2012 · 8:54 PM

So there’s one bike blog that documents luxury vacations, implores us to seriously consider a company that sells $9 bars of Fight Club soap and extols the virtues of custom carbon/Ti racing frames and occasionally races them.

Then there’s another that lampoons the silliness of bike culture in all its extremes of (ahem) consumerism and idealism, taking nothing seriously.

If I had to choose a side…

Barb Chamberlain
November 5, 2012 · 9:39 PM

I had to go comment after seeing this (not that he’ll most likely note or care about my comment). I’m 3000 miles away from my daughter, who’s in her freshman year on Long Island, and for quite a while couldn’t get a text message to tell me she was safe.

I figured she was safe but didn’t know for sure. If I’d heard that people on bikes were rallying to take food and bottled water to her campus (which, for all I knew, abounded in sewage-contaminated water) I would have been thrilled. “Smug” doesn’t enter into disaster anywhere no matter what vehicle you’re using.

Good choice of vocabulary as far as I’m concerned. As for whether this highlighted the initiative in a way that turned out some people who wouldn’t have known otherwise, it wouldn’t kill even the uber-hip to be sincere for once, in the face of a record-setting hurricane.

Signed,
Apparently Unhip Bike-Commuting Mom

Byron
November 5, 2012 · 9:58 PM

Champs! Nice of you to pay so much attention and unusual for you to comment so dickishly. I guess that’s you channeling Snob to systematically destroy our work here. But races occasionally? Now that’s getting personal and creepy. The low member number you found should indicate how long I’ve been racing and know that USA cycling’s DB only contains what’s reported. Not the second or third page where the also rans like me are or the two decades of results before they collected them

Maybe though you’re wryly noting how we’re out riding in expensive gear in Seattle instead of hosting or own fund drive or ride? Well David’s power just came back on and we’ve got a Tumblr up about Sandy. 

Rideahurricane.tumblr.com

JeffM
November 5, 2012 · 10:13 PM

I got very fatigued with BikeSnob’s incessant, smug references to genitalia and excrement.  I’m hard to offend, but this is just boring.

taldanzig
November 6, 2012 · 1:03 AM

It’s called satire. The only one being a dick here is you.

Byron
November 6, 2012 · 5:03 AM

This is like a helmet debate. Divisive and sides get picked with little common ground. To Tal’s point, that’s not satire. It’s mockery, but I wear my opinions on my sleeve about the bike blogger I’ve called a mean girl with a Grinch heart. It upset David enough to post about it and he lives there. I’ll defer to him on the topic and whoever the bigger post-Sandy dick is, the wise people of the Internet can decide.

Tyler Stambaugh
November 6, 2012 · 5:55 AM

I emailed this to BikeSnobNYC this morning and here is his reply, verbatim:
“If you have a moment feel free to comment there and explain to them I’m joining that ride today and that I grew up in Far Rockaway.
Idiots.

www.bikesnobnyc.blogspot.com
Critiquing the entire culture of cycling one ill-conceived bike at a time.”

Brady Johnson
November 6, 2012 · 5:55 AM

Still a dick?

Jeff Nolan
November 6, 2012 · 6:27 AM

Wow what a bunch of idiots. As brady Johson posted http://bikesnobnyc.blogspot.com/2012/11/this-just-in-short-post.html
Get a sense of humor. Think I’ll stop following this blog.

Byron
November 6, 2012 · 6:41 AM

@Tyler after tattling do you have your own opinion on the dickery?

@brady This one is between David and Snob.

@Jeff being called names by Snob is part of the sport of it, right? Or are his feelings hurt? Sad Snob if so, but David made his point and the response was to call him an idiot.

TravisP
November 6, 2012 · 6:46 AM

Since you haven’t been a BSNYC reader for a while, you might not be aware that he routinely refers to any cargo bike as having a high smugness quotient and any group of cargo bikes as a smugness flotilla.

You might also be unaware that he owns and rides a cargo bike.

Why did you omit the paragraph in between that stated: “Not sure if you heard, but we had a gigantic fucking storm here and there are a lot of people still without power who really need things.  Ordinarily I’d be tempted to point out that you can carry more stuff faster by car, but when you consider that the wait for gas is still something like 20 hours long it suddenly starts making a lot more sense.”

You know, where he’s basically saying the effort is a good thing, especially given the current challenges.

Byron
November 6, 2012 · 7:04 AM

@travisp

Thanks for sharing that. This set off David and he posted it. I didn’t see the Snob post, but saw the phone lines light up, Champs attacked me for David’s opinion, and now we have a dick-off about Sandy recovery

Not exactly the way I want to start my day or the vibe I’m into, but if anyone is going to call Snob out, it’s us. We’ve not shied away from it or his fans in the past.

David Schloss
November 6, 2012 · 8:22 AM

Just because Snob has a cargo bike and lampoons them, and just because he tries to hide under the protection of “satire” doesn’t mean that his post was well conceived or well executed, or to be defended.

People lost their lives. People lost their homes. Anyone that does anything to help shouldn’t be lambasted.

There are times to joke about things and times to NOT joke about things. I was personally affected by the hurricane and in no way as severe a manor as those in the Rockaways and I was offended. Don’t call a good samaritan donating their time and effort “smug.” It’s offensive. It’s rude, and it’s not helpful.

Champs, if you can’t see that a natural disaster that’s claimed lives and countless homes shouldn’t be taken seriously then there’s something wrong with you.

Duncan Watson 1
November 6, 2012 · 10:11 AM

I am from NY and live in the greater Seattle area.  Bikesnob is a dick.  His comments about Sandy and the ride were dickish and he wouldn’t know satire if he accidently stepped in it.

I don’t always agree with Byron or David but I support them 100% on this issue.

Jack Nolan
November 6, 2012 · 12:17 PM

Think you missed something.

Snobby did the ride. 

If you don’t like his attitude, don’t read the stuff.

Easy.

Sean Brandenburg
November 6, 2012 · 12:26 PM

What’s the title of this post? If I’m not mistaken, David began the name calling. How many times on this page does the word “dick,” or some variation of it, show up, and under whose name? I typically enjoy your blog, but you guys need a thicker skin when it comes to BSNYC, or you need to just ignore him altogether. It makes it seem like you guys just don’t get it. From my perspective, it appears that no matter how BSNYC promoted the relief ride, he’s actually out there participating and helping, while David is surfing the web and wining. I’m sure I’m wrong about that, but that is how it appears to me.

David Schloss
November 6, 2012 · 12:32 PM

First of all Sean, you have no idea what I’m doing regarding relief efforts. (And, using your same logic I am ALSO promoting the ride.)

I’ve got no issues with saying I started name calling. I did. I’m saying Snob’s a dick and I own that.

Here’s the deal. I’m in NY, I had no power, heat or hot water for almost a week. I know people who lost their houses.

I get we should have a thicker skin, but BSNY is calling people that are actually helping *my friends* who lost their houses “smug.”

So yeah, when he picks on brakes or wheels or whatever, I’ve got a thick skin. When he picks on people riding to help loved ones, I don’t.

Sean Brandenburg
November 6, 2012 · 1:42 PM

I know I have no idea what you’re doing, but it appears like you’re just complaining about BSNYC for doing what BSNYC does.

The point is, whatever BSNYC’s take on the ride happens to be, he is out there, smugly helping *your friends* with his cargo bike. He says a lot of things (everything?) people do with bikes make them smug. Sometimes it’s funny; (often because it’s true,) sometimes it’s not. Honestly, who cares?

 

 

Byron
November 6, 2012 · 3:21 PM

@Sean because he’s a bully and, at times, something needs to get said and we say it, also own it and don’t back down from it. What was his reaction? Calls us idiots and his fanboys agree, guess cause we’re not in on that smug joke the whole bike industry misses too. Like the “expert witnesses” he lambasts and the name listed on the PPT slide is a friend of a friend. This is very small industry.

You’re welcome to disagree, don’t think you or anyone else is an idiot for subscribing to his view of the world, the one that’s skewed to destroying the work of others. Shit, he could sell Dickstrong bands, like another bully who recently got his noise bloodied.

Larry Bafus
November 6, 2012 · 3:36 PM

After reading David’s post and the comments I went to Snob’s blog and read his post.

My conclusion is that David is tone deaf.

Brian Barclay
November 6, 2012 · 3:39 PM

I’ve read both your blogs for a while, I’ve always enjoyed snobs satire and found your blog interesting.  I found it a little amusing a while ago when someone from this site attempted to start a blog battle with the snob, in what seemed to me to be an obvious attempt to solicit hits on this site from what I assume is a much much larger audience.  His response, ignoring bikehugger, seemed appropriate, but obviously was not what you were going for.  I’m not sure what he did to you guys, but this childish negative attack that quite honestly had absolutely no merit completely turned me off this site, and I will not be returning.

Byron
November 6, 2012 · 3:42 PM

@larry, sure Of all the things Snob has said this one may not rank up there with the others, but I’ll add this. I’ve ridden with many cargo bike owners and none of them are smug, including in this neighborhood Val, Aaron or abroad a Deliver Driver in India.


