FDA Approves Pfizer Pill For Rheumatoid Arthritis

By Ed Silverman // November 6th, 2012 // 6:25 pm

After months of anticipation, the FDA approved a new rheumatoid arthritis pill from Pfizer that some Wall Streeters have been betting will become a blockbuster seller. Previously called tofacinitib, the drug has been re-named Xeljanz and will be used to treat adults with moderately to severely rheumatoid arthritis who did not respond to, or cannot tolerate, methotrexate.

The drug will be the first in a class of medications known as JAK inhibitors and data has indicated the pill would offer similar efficacy to such widely used injectables that, collectively, generate some $13 billion in annual sales for treating rheumatoid arthritis. Xeljanz will also be the first new oral disease-modifying antirheumatic drug, or DMARD, for treating the affliction in more than a decade.

The drugmaker has been counting on Xeljanz to help revive its fortunes after its Lipitor cholesterol pill lost patent protection a year ago and lower-cost generics began eating up its market share. The Xeljanz labeling suggests a potentially wider market than expected in that usage is not restricted only to patients who have failed so-called anti-TNF therapies, such as Humira, which is sold by Abbott Laboratories (ABT).

But there are some caveats. For instance, there is no language in the label about disease modification. And only a 5mg dose was approved, although x-ray study data for the 10mg dose may eventually convince the FDA to approve this as well, according to analysts. This would presumably be more appealing to physicians who may want to titrate some patients between dosages.

And appealing to physicians, of course, is crucial. A survey earlier this year found that 55 percent of doctors would not use the Pfizer (PFE) pill to replace a medication they are currently prescribing (read here). Wells Fargo analyst Larry Biegelsen believes Xeljanz will be used after a TNF inhibitor, despite the more favorable indication.

But Sanford Bernstein analyst Tim Anderson believes Xeljanz will win over doctors thanks to its overall safety and efficacy profile and the advantages offered by pills. “We think (Xeljanz) will start to gain early traction in new patient starts that are new to biologics,” he writes in an investor note. “While switches away from existing therapies that are currently working well is unlikely, among new patient starts that are new to biologics, it is understandable why patients might prefer an oral therapy versus one that requires needle-based delivery.”

Another key issue going forward, of course, is not only the extent to which physicians embrace the pill, but also pricing. Although Pfizer has not disclosed the cost, Anderson believes that Xeljanz will carry a price tag of about $25,000 annually, which places the drug in the same range as anti-TNF injectables.

“We expected it was reasonably likely that pricing would be at this level, and that pricing the drug at a discount would essentially be leaving money on the table, given the fact that, at least in the US, a modest discount would not necessarily buy better formulary placement,” Bernstein writes. “This pricing is likely higher than many analysts were expecting.”

Consequently, another unknown is payer reimbursement. That same survey found that 96 percent of insurers would not replace a drug that is currently offered in their plans with the Pfizer pill. Since then, however, Pfizer has generated additional data showing Xeljanz can reduce structural damage in patients.

Meanwhile, the FDA wants more data on the long-term effects of Xeljanz on heart disease, cancer, and serious infections. So the agency is requiring a postmarketing study that will evaluate both 5mg and 10mg two doses and include a group of patients on another approved treatment to serve as a comparison.

This past May, an FDA advisory committee voted 8-2 to recommend agency approval, but the agency delayed approval until additional data that was recently submitted by Pfizer had been reviewed. The approval actually came earlier than expected; the agency initially indicated its endorsement would not be issued before November 21.
