The Axe Falls: Bristol-Myers To Cut Nearly 500 Jobs

By Ed Silverman // November 6th, 2012 // 9:41 am

And the parade of layoffs continues. The latest drugmaker to shed some workers is Bristol-Myers Squibb, which plans to eliminate 479 sales reps and related jobs now that Otsuka Pharmaceuticals will assume responsbility for marketing the Abilify antipsycotic in the US, a spokeswoman tells us. The job cuts were disclosed in a state notice.

The revised co-marketing deal “allows BMS to simplify operations, improve its efficiency while also better positioning itself to focus on important work in cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hepatitis and immunoscience, areas of significant unmet medical need that are critical to our long-term success,” the Bristol-Myers spokeswoman writes us.

The move comes amid a difficult stretch for the drugmaker. The FDA has repeatedly postponed a final decision on whether to approve its Eliquis bloodthinner, which is part of a joint effort with Pfizer (read here). A decision is now expected in March. And two months ago, Bristol-Myers (BMY) also dropped an experimental hepatitis C treatment after a patient death and hospitalizations. Earlier this year, the drugmaker agreed to pay $2.5 billion in cash for Inhibitex and the compound (back story).

Bristol-Myers recently reported quarterly earnings that missed Wall Street expectations, even though it was already widely known that a ‘patent cliff’ effect was under way. This, of course, refers to the loss of patent protection for big-selling drugs and the subsequent emergence of lower-cost generic competition. An example is the Plavix bloodthinner.

This challenge has not spared other large drugmakers, which have also been slashing jobs. In recent weeks, Pfizer (PFE) cut 300 jobs in Quebec; Johnson & Johnson (J&J) eliminated 130 spots after an Alzheimer’s treatment failed; Teva Pharmaceuticals (TEVA) cut 65 jobs at its California plant; Abbott Laboratories (ABT) axed 550 jobs as its prepares for its AbbVie spinoff; Merck (MRK) cuts 150 jobs as part of an ongoing restructuring, and AstraZeneca (AZN) eliminated 260 positions from its MedImmune unit that are also part of a previously announced reorganization (read here, here and here).

axe pic thx to brittgow on flickr



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




    Jack Friday
        November 6th, 2012
        10:11 am
        

    Great to see axe spelt correctly, Ed.
    Observer
        November 6th, 2012
        10:24 am
        

    May I observe that I agree?

    axe US, ax [æks]n pl axes

    1. (Engineering / Tools) a hand tool with one side of its head forged and sharpened to a cutting edge, used for felling trees, splitting timber, etc. See also hatchet

    the axe Informal
    a. (Business / Commerce) (Business / Industrial Relations & HR Terms) dismissal, esp from employment; the sack (esp in the phrase get the axe)
    b. (Business / Industrial Relations & HR Terms) Brit severe cutting down of expenditure, esp the removal of unprofitable sections of a public service
    original industry insider
        November 6th, 2012
        2:34 pm
        

    This song foretells the future, not just for BMS but for the entire industry:

    http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6kUrS9nhejc
    Doc
        November 6th, 2012
        3:57 pm
        

    It is amazing that the big companies still have the size salesforces they do. It is not difficult to construct a scenario where they could reach the top rxers that generate over 70% of prescriptions with less than half their current number of reps.
    basel knows
        November 6th, 2012
        6:42 pm
        

    I am sure all know what happened with bigpharma sales forces during and shortly after the mergermania years. The bigpharma invented a business model that has never been used in any business anywhere on this planet or any other planet in the universe where there is even unintelligent life let alone intelligent. Yes it has never been used anywhere else and never will. We are talking about what is known by some as MSFoMP (Multiple Sales Forces of Mass Promotion) that all major companies used.
    Some like AstraZeneca and Pfizer for instance had up to 10 or even 11 sales forces in each and every territory across USA, Canada and Europe(?).These were mainly GP sales forces (but they also had multiple forces for specialists but not that many) charged to see their docs anywhere from 5 to 25 times per year, depending on importance of their victims.
    Imagine you are a GP and 11 reps from same company are competing amongst themselves and against cometition to see you 110 times per year, for instance.If you give them 10 minutes each that makes it 1100 minutes, almost 24 hours per year per one drug Co and you are not even 25 times per year doc. Add the others and you are seeing reps 6 months out of a year of your work. How about your patient, family, friends etc.
    This was a pure insanity based on “share of voice” they all believed they can increase with use of MSFoMP.They did figure out that no doc would see one single rep 110 per year but 11 of them 10 times each was more likely. Still insanity that started to unravel 5-6 years ago. Thus you have all these job losses and it is still not over.

