Go Vote!

by Jeremy Schoemaker on November 6, 2012 · 4 comments

Don’t give me that shit that your vote does not count.  Voting is one of your rights and one of the things that makes America great.

I have had the honor of voting in 4 presidential elections and this is the one I am most excited about. I am not going to endorse anyone…

I believe my readers are intelligent enough to make up their own minds ;)

Now if you follow me on Twitter or Facebook then you know who I like.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Steve November 6, 2012 at 12:27 pm

    Unless you voted last time and now you aren’t so enthusiastic about your candidate and would rather stay home and watch a movie or do something else.

    
Website Maker Tools November 6, 2012 at 12:56 pm

    I cannot understand why someone would not vote.

    Around the world there are countries where people would love to have the chance to vote in a free and fair election. Instead, they either can’t vote or their system is so corrupt that their vote isn’t even counted.

    Voting should be compulsory as it is Down Under. If you don’t vote you don’t have the right to moan afterwards.

    

    Markus Allen November 6, 2012 at 2:20 pm

        When I hear that people vote, I know that person is ignorant.

        When they say I can’t complain if I don’t vote, please tell me where the complaint’s department is. I’ve been looking for it for over 45 years now and no one can tell me where it is.

        Every single president is closely related to the Queen of France:

        http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genealogical_relationships_of_Presidents_of_the_United_States

        Every President is/was a Freemason.

        But here’s the worst part (that no one tells us about)… when you register, you’re agreeing to abide by the laws of the land. Funny, I never “voted” to get body scanned at the airport.

        I’m cool if anyone wants to vote.

        I’m cool if anyone wants to worship an invisible man in the clouds.

        But please don’t tell me I should vote. That’s arrogant.

        

Joe Awesome November 6, 2012 at 2:21 pm

    If you are not educated on the policies or the issues, then its prob better that you don’t vote.

    

