Fat Head Open Updates
Posted by Tom Naughton in News and Reviews	

I won’t be writing an actual post tonight because I’ll be spending all day defending my Fat Head Open title against Jimmy Moore, who has been threatening to kick my tail for weeks now.  He was a raw beginner when I got him addicted to the game in July, but he’s been playing regularly at home ever since.  He bought a basket for his yard and plays from different street locations for different par lengths.  He warned me he’s much improved.  He’ll be here all week trying to prove it.  So it’s on …

11:05 AM — This is going to be interesting, all right.  First 18, we tied at +1.  That’s what I get for trying a heroic shot through the trees from 150 feet out instead of laying up.

12:55 PM – Can’t shake this determined challenger.  Second 18, tied at even par.

2:55 PM – The world has returned to the natural order of things.  Third 18, Tom -4, Jimmy even par.  (We’re still working on adjusting the par lengths for Christine, but think we have it figured out.)

4:45 PM — Fourth 18, Tom -2, Jimmy +2, Christine +2.  I may have to fake a knee injury and stop for the week to remain undefeated.  Summer’s gone and so is daylight savings time, so no 7:30 PM rounds this time.

 

DAY TWO – TUESDAY

10:35 AM – Jimmy fulfilled one of the greatest ambitions of his adult life, beating me by one stroke in the day’s first round:  Jimmy even par, Tom +1, Christine “Nerves of Steel” Moore +1.

10:45 AM — Took a break to assist in an attempt to remove a large, growing and dangerous cancer.  Let’s hope the operation is a success.

1:05 PM – Second round, Tom even par, Jimmy +1.  Christine “Nerves of Steel” Moore sat out the round.

2:10 PM — The wheels came off Jimmy’s Beat-Naughton wagon on the back nine.  Tom -2, Jimmy +9.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Devin says:	
    November 5, 2012 at 2:40 pm	

    Go Tom!!! Kick his skinny butt!

    I’m working on it.
    eddie watts says:	
    November 6, 2012 at 5:41 am	

    http://people.csail.mit.edu/seneff/why_statins_dont_really_work.html

    don’t know if you’ve seen this or not but it is a good thorough write up of statins and cholesterol and how they seem to, in the short term at least, protect against heart disease/attacks.
    obviously it is not due to the cholesterol slashing properties which certainly do seem to be harmful.

    I have seen it. Stephanie has written some brilliant stuff.
    brandon says:	
    November 6, 2012 at 7:36 am	

    Newfound respect for Jimmy…he’s a cowboys fan! Even though they suck right now we still gotta represent.

    I stopped liking the Cowboys when they dubbed themselves America’s Team.

    This weekend it was the Divided Loyalties Bowl for me. I’ll always be a Bears fan first and foremost, but I didn’t much enjoy watching them beat up on our Titans.
    Per Wikholm says:	
    November 6, 2012 at 8:01 am	

    This is going to bee a close one… so just keep on playing frisbee golf and forget about going out to voting for Romney or What’s-the-name-of-that-libertarian-presidential candidate.

    ;-)

    No, actually I’m in favor for everyone voting, even though they get it all wrong.

    The libertarian candidate doesn’t stand a chance, so I won’t be wasting my vote on him.

    Immigrants who apply for citizenship have to pass a test demonstrating they have a basic understanding of U.S. government — name the three branches of government, name the two houses in Congress, etc. I want that to be a required test for everyone who registers to vote. We have people voting who can’t name a single house of Congress and don’t know the name of the vice-president.
    Elenor says:	
    November 6, 2012 at 8:18 am	

    I don’t watch sports (well, Formula One racing — but that’s not a sport, it’s an extremely rich gentleman’s hobby….) but I absolutely avidly read all the details of the Naughton-Moore match-ups… I’m not entirely sure whom I’m cheering for the loudest… but *I* win in either case!! Go boys go! (And good on yer, Christine, for joining them!)

    I’m rooting for Jimmy to beat me at least once, but I’m not going to insult him by taking a dive. He’ll have to out-shoot me.
    Leo says:	
    November 6, 2012 at 10:51 am	

    I know Jimmy will kick your sorry butt beyond recognition cause he’s Keto Adapted and all pumped up. Get’em Jimmy, show no mercy…

    He kicked my butt this morning — by one stroke.
    johnny says:	
    November 6, 2012 at 12:27 pm	

    Jimmy already looks skinnier than any cowboys’ linemen on both sides.

    He’s starting to look like an out of shape Jason Witten.

    Well, he’s under 250 for the first time in years and still losing … but I don’t think Jason Witten has anything to worry about.


