
The climatic case for Obama

by John Quiggin on November 6, 2012

I don’t have a vote in the US election and, even if I had taken the necessary steps, I would be unlikely to live anywhere my vote counted, with the possible exception of northern Virginia. On the other hand, as someone who lives on the same planet as 300 million or so Americans, I do have a stake in the outcome.

If I had a vote that might be decisive, I would vote for Obama. Despite having failed to mention climate change in the campaign, or to push at all hard for the Waxman-Markey bill for an emissions trading, he has put in place regulations that will significantly reduce US emissions, to the point where the announced target of a 17 per cent reduction between 2005 and 2020 looks achievable. Regulation isn’t the most efficient means of reducing emissions, but I’m happy to leave that choice to the US political system.

If Obama wins, fuel efficiency regulations for cars and emissions limits for power stations will be locked in, and there will be hope for more in the future. If Romney wins, they will be repealed or not enforced. That’s enough reason for me to hope that Nate Silver’s odds are right.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Tim Worstall 11.06.12 at 11:06 am

    “I would vote for Obama.”

    Interestingly shocking news there. I sorta doubted you would be voting for Gary Johnson.

    And that emissions reduction. How much of that is regulation and how much the switch from coal to shale gas? I’m under the impression that a goodly part of it is the latter.


ohreally 11.06.12 at 11:22 am

    Environmentalist claptrap, Marxist cant and economic idiocy.

    Thanks goodness you do to get to vote here. Go vote for Labour and ruin your own nation; Keep you feeble hands of of ours.

    The “Carbon Emissions” nonsense is just a hustle and a racket; and is “renewable energy”. As it is, the UK will be rationing power in 10 years, that and kowtowing to the Russionas and the Middle East, which is exactly what the Left wand


john b 11.06.12 at 11:22 am

    Tim W: Johnson’s hardly the only 3rd-party candidate; Jill Stein is the official Green candidate and is on the ballot pretty much everywhere.

John Quiggin 11.06.12 at 11:30 am

    As John B suggests, if I had a vote in a non-decisive state, I’d go for Stein. But if libertarians would only get sane on climate change, I’d put Johnson ahead of Obama. As a contributor to the insanity, Tim, you might want to think about why your side of politics has gone this way.


Tim Worstall 11.06.12 at 12:00 pm

    “As a contributor to the insanity, Tim, you might want to think about why your side of politics has gone this way.”

    I think accusing me of contributing to insanity on climate change is a tad over the top really.

    I’ve been arguing for nearly a decade now that it’s happening, it’s a problem, we ought to do something about it. That something being the carbon tax (as recommended by Stern) or cap and trade. I’ve made this argument at the ASI, The Daily Telegraph, Forbes, even at the late lamented TCS.

    Darn it, I even wrote a whole book about it.

    It’s bad enough when writing in all those places that I get shouted at for taking the IPCC seriously (usually about half the comments are that I’m some sort of commie pinko loonie who wants to suck up to Caroline Lucas) without being shouted at from the other side for taking the Stern Review seriously.


Harald Korneliussen 11.06.12 at 12:35 pm

    This thing about swing states: Isn’t it a paradox to say that your vote doesn’t matter because you don’t live in a swing state, when even if you were in a swing state the odds that your vote would be decisive are negligible?


Trader Joe 11.06.12 at 1:02 pm

    Really?

    I thought Obama invented fracking? He said he was king oil? Doesn’t he love energy independence more than the spotted owl?

    Oh, wait, those were just more lies, half truths and distortions…he didn’t really mean that….just like he didn’t save the auto industry (that was W) and didn’t “create or save” 3 million jobs (that never happened) and didn’t cut the deficit in half (he doubled it).


Glen Tomkins 11.06.12 at 1:03 pm

    ohreally,

    If that really is your name. If this were the Senate contest in CT we were talking about, I’ld hit you over the head with a chair. Don’t worry, it would be a Championship Wrestling chair, and I would tag in before braining you with it. I believe strictly in keeping up the tone of American elections.

    Even if every single one of your points against the Democrats were true, and as a Democrat, I have much stronger points against my party, and sneer at your feeble efforts to vilify it, there still remains this reason to vote against the Rs, if not for the Dems — the Rs have made the political process in the US a sick joke. You might get some public policy result from a D administration that wasn’t 100% political main chance, while an R in the WH is likely to start a war just to help out with the midterm elections. And they won’t be using breakaway chairs. Quit trolling on behalf of criminals.


Down and Out of Sài Gòn 11.06.12 at 1:29 pm

    The troll sounds more like a Tory than a Republican.


Martin 11.06.12 at 1:38 pm

    Inasfar as the natural gas boom (that is also mentioned in the link) has contributed to a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, can it be attributed to Obama or, for that matter, to any regulation? (I’d also note that not everybody welcomed it – Krugman more or less came out against it in a column, and Romm doesn’t even think one can attribute much CO2 reduction to it. I am a bit lost on the issue, to be honest.) Is this really the consequence of some sort of incentive, or do we just see the coincidence that a ‘new’ cheap energy source also happens to reduce emissions?


philofra 11.06.12 at 1:58 pm

    How about just voting for Obama because he is the more sincere.


Barry Freed 11.06.12 at 2:25 pm

    Only ten comments in and already two deranged trolls on the thread. You can smell the flop sweat as their guy goes down for the count. Maybe next time don’t nominate Richie Rich as your candidate.


js. 11.06.12 at 2:47 pm

        Maybe next time don’t nominate Richie Rich as your candidate.

    Though to be fair, let’s not forget who the other options. Mr. Rich was supposed to be the *sane* choice, after all.


Glen Tomkins 11.06.12 at 2:51 pm

    @9,

    Criminals all the same. Often the same criminals, or at least criminal organizations with interlocking boards of directors.


Coulter 11.06.12 at 3:05 pm

    Ha – a moderate republican from a northeastern state who worked with ted kennedy on healthcare reform, was pro-choice and pro-gay … I guess the republicans need to move further to the right to win …


Donald Johnson 11.06.12 at 3:11 pm

    “But if libertarians would only get sane on climate change, I’d put Johnson ahead of Obama.”

    Why? I’m guessing it’s foreign policy, anti-imperialism, disgust and outrage over our drone policies and also the drug war. But isn’t Gary Johnson sort of insane on economic issues?


Cahokia 11.06.12 at 3:16 pm

    Election (film release 1999):

    “Who cares about this stupid election? We all know it doesn’t matter who gets elected president of Carver. Do you really think it’s going to change anything around here; make one single person smarter or happier or nicer? The only person it does matter to is the one who gets elected. The same pathetic charade happens every year, and everyone makes the same pathetic promises just so they can put it on their transcripts to get into college. So vote for me, because I don’t even want to go to college, and I don’t care, and as president I won’t do anything. The only promise I will make is that if elected I will immediately dismantle the student government, so that none of us will ever have to sit through one of these stupid assemblies again!”

    Tammy Metzler: [her campaign speech]


rootless (@root_e) 11.06.12 at 3:22 pm

    .just like he didn’t save the auto industry (that was W) and didn’t “create or save” 3 million jobs (that never happened) and didn’t cut the deficit in half (he doubled it).
    —

    Right out of the Rove book.


ciaran 11.06.12 at 3:26 pm

    The real problem is that Romney isn’t a real conservative , Sanatorum 2016!!! USA,USA!!


Marc 11.06.12 at 3:34 pm

    I’d be depressed by the comments here if I didn’t have a very strong sense that Obama will win, especially here in Ohio. And there is virtually no group more hostile to environmentalism than the “I’ve got mine Jack” and “I don’t need a social contract” libertarian contingent. In fact, the outright dishonesty and fanaticism on climate change that libertarians employ was what confirmed my deep hostility to the entire enterprise – basically, it’s nothing but a market-as-God cult.

    Yes, the increase in fuel efficiency and the prospect of EPA regulations are very strong reasons to favor Obama. As is his receptiveness to renewable energy, as opposed to being completely in the pocket of the fossil fuel industries (e.g. Romney.) We really do have no better prospect than Obama on climate change. It is is an inefficient way to get the job done, but if money blocks the efficient channels I’ll take what I can get.


Chris Bertram 11.06.12 at 3:40 pm

    Tim Worstall:

    I think accusing me of contributing to insanity on climate change is a tad over the top really.

    Well as a reasonably prominent member of a political party that declares:

    Global warming is not proven – wind power is futile. Scrap all green taxes, wind turbine subsidies and adopt nuclear power to free us from dependence on fossil fuels and foreign oil and gas.

    It looks like you’re contributing to the problem. Perhaps you’d like to resign from UKIP or at least take a very public stance against your party on this issue and try to change their policy.


MPAVictoria 11.06.12 at 3:55 pm

    Tim do you ever wonder that a party that refuses to accept the science behind global warming may have other serious issues?


Tim Worstall 11.06.12 at 3:57 pm

    “take a very public stance”

    It’s difficult to take a stance much more public than I do.

    http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2012/07/05/of-course-a-carbon-tax-is-the-solution-to-climate-change/

    http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/finance/timworstall/100016929/why-the-answer-is-a-carbon-tax/

    http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/finance/timworstall/100017600/yes-climate-change-is-a-problem-and-yes-we-do-have-to-do-something-but-in-britain-weve-done-it-already/

    http://www.adamsmith.org/blog/miscellaneous/agreeing-with-james-hansen-on-climate-change

    Given that the front pages of the newspapers aren’t mine to command I’m not sure quite what more you expect me to do to make my opinions known?


rootless (@root_e) 11.06.12 at 4:03 pm

    “But if libertarians would only get sane on climate change, I’d put Johnson ahead of Obama. “

    Who does, after all, need laws forbidding child labor or racial discrimination in accommodations when the Ineffable Workings of the Free Market have been shown to vaporize such flaws in the long history of LibertopiaVille ?


Shelley 11.06.12 at 4:34 pm

    In America, the elephant in the room is always corporate power.


Eric Titus 11.06.12 at 5:47 pm

    While there’s obviously problems with Obama from an environmental standpoints, it’s pretty safe to say that he’s contributed to the ‘greening’ of America, whether it’s green energy or taking the environment into account in government decisions. But obviously, if you were a liberal single-issue voter on the environment (or most other issues, really) you’d vote for Obama. The only reasons you wouldn’t would be holistic (you don’t necessarily approve of Romney but think he’d get us out of this recession quicker), excessive strategizing (you know obama wasn’t the ideal president, but maybe political pressure would force romney to be), or ideologically principled (you know Romney would probably be worse on the environment/taxes/banks/civil rights, but still can’t vote for Obama because of what he’s done).


Jon H 11.06.12 at 5:47 pm

    “Ha – a moderate republican from a northeastern state who worked with ted kennedy on healthcare reform, was pro-choice and pro-gay “

    Pro-gay? Romney inserted the Governor’s office into the process of getting birth certificates when the parents were a gay couple. Parents had to wait for some Romney puppet to give their approval.

    That’s not pro-gay.


Omega Centauri 11.06.12 at 6:04 pm

    Well yes, at least with Obama only a few keys to the country will be given to the oligarchs.

    The argument about whether the whole fracking natural gas things has cut carbon emissions revolves around a few potential setbacks. The most obvious is that we haven’t cut coal mining by as much as we’ve reduced burning it, we are exporting the difference. Secondarily, cheap natural gas, makes renewables less competitive. So while we are retiring coal power ahead of schedule, we are letting the transition slip in other ways. Plus natral gas drilling has morphed into “wet” natural gas drilling, where liquid fuels are the real payoff. Our increases in domestic oil production are caused by the same forces that have improved the natural gas production.

    Kind of reminds me of Australia, they imposed a carbon tax, but are expanding coal exports willy nilly. I guess emissions don’t count if the actual burning takes place in someone elses territory?


Voltaire 11.06.12 at 7:03 pm

    How can anyone vote for a man who kills innocent children by drones? True, even Romney will do that, but then the liberal media will oppose and perhaps this killing would stop!


John Quiggin 11.06.12 at 7:11 pm

    I don’t follow all your writings, Tim, but I’d count this as a contribution to the insanity

    http://www.nationalreview.com/planet-gore/18203/better-change-rhetoric/tim-worstall

    especially given the publication venue.


Bogdanov 11.06.12 at 7:46 pm

    When was the last time climate change was seriously covered by the media? It stopped right when Obama became President because, like everything else, sadly, it is almost entirely a political issue now.

    The right is not going to challenge Obama on climate change, and the pseudo-left in the United States clearly isn’t either. Unfortunately, from a realpolitik standpoint, the better outcome is probably a Romney victory after which the pseudo-left would take up its opposition to climate change, American imperialism, etc. once again (at least until another Democrat takes office).


Matt 11.06.12 at 7:53 pm

    American coal exports have not increased enough to replace falling domestic demand. If Obama stays in office I have some hope that environmental challenges to new coal-export terminals will succeed and American coal production will not rebound.

    The EPA’s cap on CO2 emissions per megawatt-hour seems like a fairly arbitrary and inefficient way to clean up electrical production. A new plant that’s 10% over the threshold simply can’t be built and a plant that’s 10% under is treated no differently from a plant that’s 80% under. But I prefer this weird scheme to no mitigation effort at all.

    The coal industry has been talking for years about how carbon capture and storage can deliver “clean coal” energy. Now’s the time to step up and prove it. Unless, heaven forbid, the talk about clean coal was just a delaying tactic with no intent to follow through with action.

    The shift to natural gas seems like a pretty good thing to me from an emissions perspective. Maybe not so much from a groundwater perspective in fracking areas. But natural gas plants can change output faster than coal, so they match intermittent renewables better, plus they emit only about half the CO2 when directly substituting for coal. The downside is low electricity prices potentially undermining renewable generation, but there’s a lot of state-level laws mandating renewable energy targets that won’t be diminished at all by cheap fossil electricity.


Chris Williams 11.06.12 at 8:15 pm

    Ouch. Tim, that’s gotta hurt. Response?

    A few years ago, a whole bunch of people who weren’t members of the UK’s Green Party started attacking it on the basis that it was full of woo. The GP’s response was to set up a committee of scientists to de-woo itself, which it did significantly. That’s because it’s full of grown-ups. UKIP, clearly not so much.


Martin Bento 11.06.12 at 8:19 pm

    I’m in a safe blue state, and I’m voting for Johnson. Sure, I like Stein a lot better, but the Greens can only progress at the expense of the Democratics, whereas the Libertarians will mostly cost the Republicans, and where they can draw from Democrats, it will be because of their positions on civil liberties, militarism, and the war on drugs, and the Dems need to feel some pressure in those areas.

    Here’s the good news: we may see the death of the Republican Party in our lifetimes.

    Major parties in the US do die. The Federalists did. The Whigs did (I am defining “major party” as one capable of producing Presidents). And the unthinkable happens. The Soviet Union was an inescapable fact of life, until, very quickly, it was not.

    The Democrat/Republican structure has been stable for a long time. The leftmost party used also to be the party of racism, which enabled and required unusual cross-party alliances. Ironically, the ideological contradictions made the structure more stable. This ended in the 60s, and the consequences have been playing out since. I think we are now at an endpoint.

    The Southern Strategy is dead. If Kevin Phillips were given the power of Dr. Frankenstein and tried to create the perfect candidate to use this strategy on, he would have sewn together Barack Hussein Obama, a black man with a name that sounds both African and Arab, partly raised in a Muslim country, with radical associates in his past. But Obama whooped them once, and looks likely to win again (unless voter suppression and electronic voting games will be more effective than people realize). If this strategy fails against Barack Hussein Obama, it will be an utter joke against candidates with names like Clinton and Biden. It’s dead, Jim.

    But the GOP is married to the corpse. They must stroke its bony hands in bed and whisper sweet nothings into its putrid remains of an ear. Their only way out is to find a latin lover (blacks are unavailable), but the slightest movement in that direction, the faintest flicking off of the sheets, as Perry learned, brings the wrath of their base. And risking their share of the white vote on a deeply uncertain effort to get a sizable share of the latino one would be suicide.

    So they’re painted into a corner, and both racial demographic trends and the differences in attitude between the generation currently coming of age and that currently dying off indicate that corner will get smaller and smaller.

    All of which, I realize, is analysis frequently done before, though perhaps less imagistically expressed.

    The question is what next?

    The usual view is to assume the Republicans will either adapt by expanding their appeal or soldier on as a regional and minority party. But it is not easy to see how they will do either. If they cannot appeal to non-white voters, then they have to expand their appeal to white ones, and/or find non-white ones who will vote based on other facts about themselves than race. There have been attempts. They have been banking on generational warfare, but the clock is running out on that strategy (they may get one last shot in 2016. After that, Gen X itself hits the 55 year-old line that they have drawn, and they lose the opportunity to play to their resentment of boomers). I think the expanded attacks on abortion and such are partly a hope to find Latinos who will vote as good Catholics, rather than as Latinos. I think this likely to fail. Most of the whites who do not support them now are unlikely to be convinced. So how do they rebound?

    Minority party then? But this is a party dominated by warriors who want nothing of compromise and whose stridency masks deep ideological divisions. Do you think Paul Ryan enjoyed having to Peterlike deny the love of his life, Ayn Rand, to kiss up to a bunch of old church ladies? Do you think Romney can stand trying to act like a 47%-er regular guy – with their bad cookies and tacky rain ponchoes? What holds this party together is the desire not to pay taxes, but that is not ideology, it is spoils, whatever hogwash apology is dredged up. And a minority party cannot deliver spoils.

    Regional? Well, they are back on the states’ rights kick. But there is not that much the states can deliver. They don’t control that much of the money. They can make abortion difficult, but not illegal. They cannot wage war. They cannot control the Supreme Court. Most of the income tax is out of their hands.

    There is then the possibility that being shut out of power without a visible path back in could be the death of the party. The main thing preventing this would be that none of the major elements of their coalition has anywhere else to go.

    The Libertarians do have a party to go to. They have stayed away from it because they wanted to actually hold power, but if that is not looking likely, it would be better to make your case in pure form, rather than pretending that fundamentalists and tribalists are your allies.

    This year Ron Paul showed that the Libertarian element in the Republican coalition, while a minority, is not numerically insignificant. And it is the youth and therefore future of the party. But the party screwed them: changing the rules so as not to seat Paul’s delegates and not even giving him a speaking slot at the Convention.

    There was a poll yesterday of Ohio that included the minor party candidates. Johnson got 5% (On the other hand, a Green candidate in Ohio has just sued over suspect voting machines. Probably should not have waited till the last minute). That’s at partisan ground zero. Matched nationally, that’s sufficient to qualify for matching funds and therefore news.


Soullite 11.06.12 at 8:24 pm

    LoL. This isn’t a ‘climatic’ case. This is snake oil. In no way are increased fuel sufficiency standards and slightly lower emissions going to make the slightest bit of difference. The only way to pretend otherwise is to forget everything we know about how carbon and other ‘greenhouse’ gas sinks work, how feedback cycles work, how the actual mechanisms of climate change work.

    Climate change isn’t an issue where the ‘lesser of evils’ makes any kind of difference. We are every bit as screwed with a little bit of evil as we are with a whole lot of evil. Sure, it’s ‘achievable’, but only in the sense that the reductions themselves can be done. Those reductions won’t make any real difference. We’re either too close to the tipping point or already past it.

    I find it difficult to believe that the people here don’t already know that.


John Quiggin 11.06.12 at 8:26 pm

    Coal mines are closing in both the US and Australia
    http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0912/81368.html
    http://www.smh.com.au/business/more-jobs-go-as-coalmines-shut-down-20120910-25oeq.html

    As regards where a carbon tax should be levied, there’s a strong theoretical case for doing so at the point of final consumption, but that’s not practical. From Australia’s point of view, a global tax at the point of extraction would be best, but the international agreement has been to focus on where the emissions are generated.

    As an aside, the Australian government did try to tax coal and iron ore more heavily, but they were beaten by the mining companies.


MPAVictoria 11.06.12 at 8:40 pm

    ” I don’t follow all your writings, Tim, but I’d count this as a contribution to the insanity
    http://www.nationalreview.com/planet-gore/18203/better-change-rhetoric/tim-worstall
    especially given the publication venue.”

    Tim you have written for the National Review??!!?? What the hell are you doing positing here? Did you get lost on the way to Red State?
    / I feel dirty.
    / So very, very dirty.


Hidari 11.06.12 at 8:43 pm

    “I feel dirty.
    So very, very dirty.”

    And not in a good way, I presume.


MPAVictoria 11.06.12 at 8:46 pm

    “And not in a good way, I presume.”

    No Hidari.. Not in a good way at all.


scott 11.06.12 at 8:55 pm

    Good post, but hasn’t this site been totally discredited by its lack of devotion to the overwhelming importance of an invincible navy? Next to that, the extinction of the planet from climatic change seems meaningless, really.


rootless (@root_e) 11.06.12 at 9:00 pm

    How can anyone vote for a man who kills innocent children by drones? True, even Romney will do that, but then the liberal media will oppose and perhaps this killing would stop!
    —

    Indeed. Only guilty children perished when the liberal media opposed Bush’s shock-and-awe. And that was from nice friendly Nader-Approved fighter bomber jets and white phosphorous artillery shells, so it hardly counts as “killed”. And no drones – it was absolutely morally pure. Like white people, in the snow or something.


John Quiggin 11.06.12 at 9:34 pm

    @scott And, with sea level rise, naval invincibility will become that much more important. Even my last-minute profession of lesser-evilism seems unlikely to restore my reputation, but there you go.


rootless (@root_e) 11.06.12 at 9:52 pm

    The British Navy, according to sources, practiced lesser weevilism.


John Quiggin 11.06.12 at 10:21 pm

    I think O’Brian may be an unreliable narrator on this point.


novakant 11.06.12 at 10:24 pm

    Obama is a war criminal, I wouldn’t vote for a war criminal.


rootless (@root_e) 11.06.12 at 10:45 pm

    http://ageofsail.wordpress.com/2009/02/17/the-lesser-of-two-weevils/

    and this
    http://ageofsail.wordpress.com/2009/02/18/weevily-biscuit/#more-308


novakant 11.06.12 at 11:25 pm

    “lesser of two evilism” has gotten us two parties virtually indistunguishable on “national security” and more than 50/75 % of democrats supporting Guantanamo and drone strikes


rootless (@root_e) 11.06.12 at 11:34 pm

    “lesser of two evilism” has gotten us two parties virtually indistunguishable on “national security” and more than 50/75 % of democrats supporting Guantanamo and drone strikes
    —

    Actually, no. First, 100,000+ dead Iraqis disagree on “virtually indistinguishable”. Buy some moral glasses. Second, the parlous state of US politics is due to the success that narcissistic handwringers have had in helping the GOP win with their self-serving pious moralizing.


Leeds man 11.06.12 at 11:40 pm

    Soullite @35 We’re either too close to the tipping point or already past it.

    Probably. The Homo Sap idea of foresight is making sure there’s enough gas in the tank, and debate lags reality by decades. But debate (OK, mostly shouting) makes us feel good.


Antti Nannimus 11.06.12 at 11:42 pm

    Hi,

    Because of the system we have in the U.S. and the power of money in it, we are always reduced to a choice of lesser evils. Democrats are venal, corrupt, mostly ineffectual, and often completely wrong, but Republicans, and their fellow right-wing travelers, are even worse, metaphysically and murderously evil, and an active threat and danger to all of humanity. Even if Democrats don’t provide a reasonable alternative, I have not yet reached the point of nihilistic cynicism that would prevent me from doing everything I can to oppose these right-wing ideologues, their tactics, their beliefs, and their candidates. I wish I also had a way to do that against the many idiotic Democrats too, but in a two-party monopoly system funded by the wealthiest and most powerful, that is impossible. There were ten different choices on the presidential election ballot this year. Two of them were socialist, plus the Green party, all three which are substantially to the political left of the Democrats. I really wish we had a system were I could have voted for any or all of them without further empowering the right wing conservatives. But there isn’t, so I voted for Obama again, in spite of my disappointment in his first term performance. Perhaps he’ll do better in his second term.

    Have a great day!
    Antti


chris9059 11.06.12 at 11:53 pm

    @Martin Bento “the Greens can only progress at the expense of the Democrats, whereas the Libertarians will mostly cost the Republicans, and where they can draw from Democrats, it will be because of their positions on civil liberties, militarism, and the war on drugs, and the Dems need to feel some pressure in those areas.”

    You’re correct that to the extent that the Libertarians can poach Democratic voters this might put some needed pressure on the Democratic Party re civil liberties etc. But wouldn’t votes lost to the Greens put pressure on the Democratic party establishment on other issues which are just as important, specifically economic justice?


Leeds man 11.07.12 at 12:03 am

    Antti @50: Perhaps he’ll do better in his second term.

    If there were a way to put the screws to the bastard, he might. I’d love to hear ideas on that from the Americans here. How do you shout louder than Wall Street or Big Pharma?


Martin Bento 11.07.12 at 12:32 am

    The difference is

    1) the Greens will take votes pretty much only from Democrats, though they may also attract non-voters. There are situations where I think it good to support them, but if they did start to make the leap to electoral significance, it would net empower the Repubs unless there was a lot of tacit cooperation with the Dems

    2) 12 years later, many Dems are still frothing at the mouth over Nader, making said cooperation impossible. They should take a page from the Conservative Movement. They didn’t waste a decade lambasting Perot voters over Clinton; they recognized that their duty regarding an insurgency (mostly) on their side was to co-opt it: hence, Gingrich and the Contract With America. Two years after Perot spent a debate shredding Bush, the Conservatives were stronger than they had been since Reagan. See also Reagan costing Ford the election in 76, or the Tea Party costing the Repubs the Senate in 2010.

    3) The Libertarians will take voters mostly from the Repubs because that is how most of them vote now. To the extent that they take voters from the Dems, it will be obvious what the issues are, which could pressure the Dems on those issues. And on those issues, the Libertarians are good. The Libertarians are better than the Democrats in some ways, but horrible on many other issues. But on most of the issues where they are horrible, they are just like the Republicans, so those positions – Ayn Ryand positions to coin a term – are already in the conversation and in play. It is true that the actual Libertarian economic platform is different than the Repub one, but that is largely because the Libertarians are not big enough to be constrained by reality. 
