Mata enjoying playing under Chelsea ‘legend’ Di Matteo

Juan Mata has revealed he is enjoying playing alongside Oscar and Eden Hazard in Chelsea's attacking style, and has praised Roberto Di Matteo as a club legend.

The Spanish playmaker was recently named October's Premier League Player of the Month after enjoying a fantastic run of form, and he is relishing the increased attacking freedom given to him this season.

Speaking to Absolute Radio about his new teammates Oscar and Hazard, he said: "We practice in the training as well, because I mean we're playing with freedom, Ed and Oscar and me, we all three love to play with the ball, and our relationship with each other is very good.

"But we know that when we are defending we have to be in those free positions to defend, so attacking, we play with freedom, but talking about defend we have to be very, very straight with the team."

Despite winning the Champions League last season, the Blues were criticized for their style of play, but Mata has enjoyed playing under Di Matteo after his took over from Andre Villas-Boas.

"I mean it's not changing a lot of things from Andre, they were working together, so they know each other very well. I think when you're a manager you play or the way that you play, is because of the players that you have," he explained.

He added, "This year we have more midfielders, more quality players, and we are playing different from the last year. But I think because of the new signings, talking about manager Di Matteo he is a very, very good manager, he's so clever, he knows very well how is playing and managing for Chelsea.

"He used to be a legend here. So it's very important for us to have a manager like him."

The former Valencia man is also relishing facing Liverpool in Sunday's clash at Stamford Bridge, as the west London club now sits a point behind Manchester United following last weekend's results.

"Playing against Liverpool is always a tough game, and I realized last season when we lose in the Capital One Cup, in league as well, playing in Anfield, and I think we have to be strong at home," he said.


Follow GOAL.COM USA on Twitter

Does this article fire you up? Comment below and your opinion could be featured in the Boost Mobile Hot Topics published every Thursday. Click here for more details.

