NFL fantasy football: DeMarco Murray likely still out

Murray ruled out: The Dallas Cowboys could be taking all of the “will he or won’t he” drama out of Week 10 early with reports that running back DeMarco Murray won’t play in Sunday’s game against the Philadelphia Eagles.  Murray has missed the past three games with a sprained foot, though there is some optimism he could return soon after running along the sidelines before Dallas’ Week 9 game against the Atlanta Falcons. In the meantime, the Cowboys turn their attention to the banged-up Felix Jones who could split carries with Phillip Tanner and Lance Dunbar if he’s not fully ready. Philly’s defense wasn’t going to be the best running back matchup this week anyway. If Dallas is using a multi-back attack, fantasy owners may be wise to avoid it altogether.

Charles limited in practice: Kansas City Chiefs running back Jamaal Charles did not practice fully on Monday after suffering a neck injury in last week’s loss to the San Diego Chargers. At the moment, it doesn’t appear that the injury is anything that will  keep him out of this week’s contest against the Pittsburgh Steelers, but it is worth monitoring as the week progresses. It’s also worth remembering that since his 140-yard rushing game in Week 5, Charles has run for a combined 83 yards in his next three games. While the Steelers defense hasn’t been as good as it’s been in past seasons, it still isn’t giving up big chunks to opposing running backs, allowing just one 100-yard rusher this season.

Jones-Drew still not ready: Using a cart to get around because of a sprained foot, Jacksonville Jaguars running back Maurice Jones-Drew has already been ruled out of Thursday night’s game against the Indianapolis Colts. It doesn’t look good for MJD getting back on the field for Week 11, either. Rashad Jennings hasn’t been great in his past two starts, but he has a favorable matchup this week against Indy. If you’re dealing with a bye week RB, he’s worth a look.

– Marcas Grant
Follow Marcas on Twitter @MarcasG


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

