Fantasy football: Percy Harvin could be unavailable

Bad news: Minnesota Vikings wide receiver Percy Harvin underwent an MRI on Monday which confirmed he has a sprained ankle. Though the Florida product did play after having his ankle wrapped in Sunday’s matchup against the Seattle Seahawks, he was far from effective, totaling just 1.40 fantasy points for the day. While it’s too early to rule him out, the prospect of facing the Detroit Lions’ sixth-ranked secondary in less than top form does not bode well for his prospects. It would also impact the value of running back Adrian Peterson. Harvin has more than doubled the total yardage of any other receiver on the team, and with little threat in the passing game, the Lions would be able to stack the box and focus solely on stopping Peterson. Detroit’s defensive front has only allowed two rushing scores this season, so keep tabs on Harvin’s status as it could have a ripple effect. Then again, considering how Peterson has proven everyone wrong this season, it wouldn’t surprise us if he thrives regardless.

Repeating history: Stop me if you’ve heard this one; Oakland Raiders running back Darren McFadden is injured. As NFL.com’s Gregg Rosenthal notes, “It’s a bad sign that McFadden’s injury came early in the game and he wasn’t seen again.” As for the results of his MRI, it came back negative, and the team would not rule him out of Week 10 action. But what will be a headache for fantasy owners is that backup Mike Goodson also suffered an ankle injury in relief. With both players possibly missing their matchup against the Baltimore Ravens, Marcel Reece looks like the player to pick up off the waiver wire if you’re in a bind this week.

Finally: Oakland Raiders tight end Brandon Myers finally found the end zone on Sunday, and it was so fun, he decided to do it twice. He’s been among the most consistent options at the position, scoring no less than four fantasy points just once this season. While it might not seem like much, the result has been Myers ranking seventh among all tight ends. As Jason Smith notes is his “Targets and Touches” analysis, the Iowa product was the most-targeted receiver in the NFL for Week 9, racking up 13 total looks. In a game which saw the Raiders second-highest point total of the season and with the potential Darren McFadden could miss time, Myers should get more looks in the red zone than in previous games.

-Adrian Mojica
Follow on Twitter @FFFdaily


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

