NFL fantasy football: Doug Martin’s fantastic fantasy day

Probably around the time Tampa Bay Buccaneers running back Doug Martin was scampering for his third touchdown of the day — a 70-yard dash in Tampa Bay’s win over the Oakland Raiders — you were probably asking yourself where the Muscle Hamster’s day ranked historically. We might live in the now, but never let it be said we don’t believe in providing historical context. So here it is…the Top 5 all-time fantasy football performances.

1. Clinton Portis, RB, Denver Broncos — 55.40 fantasy points (2003)

Portis was a quality fantasy producer (and snappy dresser) for most of his career, but in Week 14, he took it to a new level. The man from “The U” rushed for 218 yards and five touchdowns — and added another 36 receiving yards for good measure — in a win over the Kansas City Chiefs. The following week, he ran for 139 yards and two more touchdowns against the Cleveland Browns. But after posting a 50-spot, those 26.5 points look like a pittance by comparison.

2. Shaun Alexander, RB, Seattle Seahawks – 53.10 fantasy points (2002)

Alexander was the undisputed king of fantasy running backs in 2004 and 2005, but before he ascended to the throne, he put on a show in primetime. The only problem with this performance is determining what was more impressive: Alexander’s 139 rushing yards, his 92 receiving yards or his five total touchdowns (four rushing) … or that he scored all of those touchdowns in the first half! That game proved to be something of a jinx for Alexander as he was held below 100 yards rushing for six straight weeks following his explosion.

3. Doug Martin, RB, Tampa Bay Buccaneers — 51.20 fantasy points (2012)

The list of superlatives for the rookie’s breakout performance is pretty long, including being the top rookie fantasy performance on record. Martin set a franchise record with 251 rushing yards and became the first player since 1940 with three touchdown runs of 45 yards or more in the same game. His numbers would have looked even better except Martin lost 14 yards on his final three carries — otherwise, he would have had 52.60 points. I guess we can let him slide.

4. Mike Anderson, RB, Denver Broncos — 49.60 fantasy points (2000)

It’s somewhat odd that two Denver Broncos made this list, but neither of them are named Terrell Davis. Anderson, the originator of the Mile High Salute, earned kudos from fantasy owners for running roughshod over the New Orleans Saints as a rookie. The former Utah Ute posted 251 rushing yards and four touchdowns in the victory. It was the highlight of a season that saw Anderson surpass 100 rushing yards six times — including games with 195 and 187 yards.

5. Michael Vick, QB, Philadelphia Eagles — 49.32 fantasy points (2010)

Magic can happen on Monday night, and in 2010 Vick pulled a rabbit out of his hat against the Washington Redskins. It began with an 88-yard touchdown strike to DeSean Jackson and ended with a 3-yard TD pass to Jason Avant. In between, the Eagles quarterback threw for 333 yards and four touchdowns while running for 80 yards and two more scores. It was part of a phenomenal fantasy season that Vick has been trying to duplicate ever since.

– Marcas Grant
Follow Marcas on Twitter @MarcasG


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

