Madden curse watch week 9: Detroit Lions at Jacksonville Jaguars

Historically, players who are featured on the cover of the “Madden NFL” franchise experience significant drops in their offensive production. NFL.com is tracking the performance of Calvin Johnson and the Detroit Lions over the course of the 2012 season because we believe Johnson will debunk the Madden curse.

Our hero Calvin Johnson did not practice all week due to a lingering knee injury, but was active against the Jacksonville Jaguars.

Would Megatron have it any other way? Move along Madden, nothing to see here.

It’s game time folks!

FIRST QUARTER

The Lions are unable to score on their first drive, but the defense forces a quick three-and-out for the Jaguars.

Second Lions possession of the game starts from their own 8. Let’s go Lions!

Rookie Ryan Broyles starts off as Matt Stafford’s go-to guy, nabbing 3 catches for 29 yards.

On 3rd and 11, Tony Scheffler snags this ball out of the air. In bounds.

Way to drag the toes, Scheff, and keep the drive alive!

Detroit is set up for a 47-yard field goal, but Jason Hanson’s kick hits the upright. His second miss of the season keeps it scoreless.

Calvin Johnson racks up 6 catches for 43 yards. It’s business as usual for the star wideout. On to the second quarter!

SECOND QUARTER

The Lions have momentum and a running back on their team whose name is Mikel Leshoure.

Calvin Johnson sets the Lions up in the red zone with a 26-yard grab, then Leshoure runs it in from the 7-yard line.

But Leshoure’s not finished yet, and neither is Calvin Johnson.

Johnson gets another big catch  for 38 yards and a spot on the 1.

Leshoure puts the Lions up by 14 with another touchdown run.

With 35 seconds left in the second quarter, Leshoure finds the end zone again, making it 21-0.

Megatron finishes the first half with six receptions for 111 yards.

THIRD  QUARTER

Two Detroit interceptions keep the Jaguars scoreless.

Hello, Erik Coleman!

The next Jaguars posssion ends up in the hands of cornerback Jonte Green.

An uneventful offensive showing by both teams keeps the score at 21-0.

FOURTH  QUARTER

Stafford tries to connect with Titus Young, our hero from last week, in the end zone. Young drops the pass and Jason Hanson kicks a field goal to make it 24-0.

With under 9 minutes left in the game, the Jaguars finally score. Blaine Gabbert hits Michael Spurlock with a 7-yard touchdown pass.

And after a successful two-point conversion, the Jaguars have eight points on the board.

But with the next possession, the Lions seal their victory with a 10-yard touchdown run by Joqiue Bell.

Justin Blackmon’s first career touchdown comes too late to make a difference in this game.

The Detroit Lions win, 31-14. Calvin Johnson finishes with 7 catches for 129 yards.

Looking good, Megatron!

See you next week!


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. Use the “Report” link to help keep the community at its best.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

