Week 9 fantasy feedback

» Adrian Peterson is still very, very good. Carry on.

» The Oakland Raiders might have some tough decisions to make at running back. Darren McFadden and Mike Goodson both left Sunday’s game with injuries, leaving Marcel Reece and Taiwan Jones to pick up the slack.

» Not to be outdone, Josh Freeman is becoming a weekly start in many leagues. Including today’s game, Freeman has thrown two or more TD passes in four straight games while only throwing one interception in that same stretch. I’m not sure if Vincent Jackson has made Freeman better or he’s just figured things out. Frankly, I don’t care. I just want more.

» For the fourth consecutive week, Doug Martin is over 13 fantasy points and 100 scrimmage yards, making sure you don’t forget him when speaking about this season’s emerging rookie class. He’s becoming a solid RB2 in most formats and with games still coming against the Panthers, Falcons and Saints, he should be on rosters in 100 percent of leagues.

» Jay Cutler to Brandon Marshall. When it’s on, it’s arguably the best QB-WR combo in the league. And it was on today. Boy, was it on.

» Have seen plenty of tweets suggesting I eat crow over saying Chris Johnson shouldn’t have been started this week. I’ll always admit when I’m wrong on something, but this isn’t one of those moments. Nothing about the matchup said Johnson was in line for a big week. That was reinforced when the Bears took a huge lead early in the first half. If you started CJ because you had no other options or just had a gut feeling, my sincerest congratulations for having it work out.  That doesn’t mean it wasn’t a risky move. Sorta like like that 3 a.m. burrito.

» Weeks like this are why fantasy owners are understandably frustrated with Calvin Johnson. Megatron rebounded from back-to-back disappointments with 129 receiving yards. The problem? He failed once again to score a touchdown and now trails teammates Mikel Leshoure and Joique Bell (among others) in that category. It may be disheartening, but you can’t really afford to sit such a talented receiver.

» Andrew Luck continues to blossom, setting a single-game rookie record with 433 passing yards. And he’s doing it by spreading the ball around to a variety of receivers. Seven different Colts caught a pass on Sunday, but unlike the situation in Washington, there’s no doubt that Reggie Wayne is the undisputed No. 1 — even if he was outgained this week by T.Y. Hilton and Donnie Avery.

» Remember when Ryan Fitzpatrick was considered a viable fantasy starter? Granted, this week he faced a tough Texans defense, but Fitzpatrick has struggled to find any consistency this year.

» Just when you thought Santana Moss was primed to be the new No. 1 receiver for the Redskins, he’s held to one catch for two yards. For all of the good things RG3 has done for fantasy owners, establishing a consistent playmaking pass-catcher hasn’t been one of them.

» Today’s receiving numbers are looking like what we hoped for during the preseason: Calvin Johnson and Andre Johnson are both over 100 yards while Steve Smith and Larry Fitzgerald catch touchdown passes. If only every week could be like this.

» While things have turned around for Cam Newton, it continues to be a struggle for RG3. The Redskins rookie could struggle to break 200 yards passing and has just 32 rushing yards. Of course, we’ve seen him have plenty of big fourth quarters, so don’t give up on him yet.

» Maybe we were looking at the wrong second-year receiver when we talked about who would make the leap to the upper echelon. Sure, Julio Jones is good, but A.J. Green has outdone him. With his touchdown today, Green has now scored in seven straight games — the only time he failed to score was in the season opener. He also is on pace to surpass 100 receiving yards for the fourth time this season. Even when Andy Dalton struggles, Green continues to be money.

» Andrew Luck continues to shine at home. The Colts rookie has thrown for 273 yards and a touchdown in the first half against the Miami Dolphins. If he hasn’t already, he’s soon to be a must-start option every week.

» There’s still a lot of time left, but this Cam Newton-Robert Griffin III fantasy matchup hasn’t been quite so fantastic. Newton has thrown for just 64 yards and rushed for 28 while Griffin has 63 passing yards and 15 rushing yards. Stay tuned.

» Hopefully you weren’t starting Chris Johnson this week. If you are, consider his day just about done. With the Titans down big in the first half, it’s highly unlikely that Johnson will be a big part of the game plan moving forward. Not good considering he has just 10 rushing yards and a lost fumble.

» More proof that the Green Bay Packers are still on the hunt for a consistent starting running back. Aaron Rodgers leads the team early with 37 yards on four carries. That probably won’t last, but it is a signal of Green Bay’s rushing issues.

» Arian Foster gets a bye week to prepare for a bad Buffalo Bills defense. It’s going about how you’d expect early on: six carries, 41 yards.

» The Chicago Bears defense continues to be one one of the best fantasy options — not just defensive options — around. The Bears blocked a punt and returned it for a score. The defense and special teams have scored seven touchdowns this season. Compare that to the Jacksonville Jaguars, who have just nine TDs as a team.

» This could be one of those weeks when Cam Cameron remembers when Ray Rice is on his team. The Ravens fed their star six times on the opening drive for 32 yards and a score. If that keeps up, fantasy owners should be happy…and Baltimore has a better chance to win.

» Already a few things of note: Calvin Johnson is active, but could be limited. Donald Brown is active, but Vick Ballard should start. Keep it here for more updates through the day.

– Marcas Grant
Follow Marcas on Twitter @MarcasG


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

