Social (Fantasy) Network: Invaluable

They say beauty is in the eye of the beholder — which explains Kristen Stewart’s otherwise head-scratching popularity. However, it also explains why I have an irrational fantasy crush on Doug Martin … I mean, aside from the fact that hearing or saying the phrase “Muscle Hamster” never fails to make me giggle.

So this week, when I cranked up the Social (Fantasy) Network and asked you all who your mid-season fantasy MVP was, I expected a few answers that might go against the grain. You certainly didn’t disappoint. I also had to keep this week’s topic somewhat quiet in the office. Lately whenever Adam Rank hears anyone say “MVP”, he throws on a foam fish head and begins shouting incoherently about Miguel Cabrera.

(And might I add that if I had a vote for fantasy MVP, I’d give it to you all for being so entertaining this year. Okay, maybe not all of you. But most of you.)

Alright, enough schmaltz … here are your picks. First, we’ll get some of the obvious choices out of the way.

We’ve spent so much time this season talking about the greatness of quarterbacks while constantly sifting through running backs on the waiver wire like trying to the prize at the bottom of a box of Cracker Jack. And sorta like that prize, it’s rarely as exciting as you thought it would be before you got your fingers all sticky. That’s why it’s refreshing to see some ball carriers getting some love.

I guess #Belitricks just ain’t what they used to be. First the demise of #Shanahanigans, now this? What’s a fantasy geek supposed to believe in? Next you’re going to tell me that people are choosing kickers to be their fantasy MVPs.

*Facepalm*

I should have seen that coming. Okay, is there anyone that can get this thing back on track? Maybe a name from the past. Someone that everyone forgot about only to have him remind us that rumors of his demise were greatly exaggerated?

That works. Speaking of things being exaggerated, I used to believe that most fantasy defenses won’t win weeks for you, but they can certainly lose them. That was before I met the 2012 Chicago Bears.

No kidding. Here’s a short list of some of the fantasy “studs” that have been outscored by the Bears this season: Adrian Peterson, Ray Rice, LeSean McCoy, Larry Fitzgerald and Calvin Johnson. If only we could find a way to flex a defense.

Finally, we give the last word this week to Paul, whose MVP selection recalls one of this season’s earlier S(F)N posts.

I dare say you have company in that regard.

Do you have a mid-season MVP that didn’t make our list? Hit us up in the comments section. Plus, be on the lookout for next week’s #SocialFF question. Happy Week 9 everybody!

– Marcas Grant
Follow Marcas on Twitter @MarcasG


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.
