NFL fantasy football: Jermichael Finley could see more targets

Packers want Finley more involved: Without a doubt, Jermichael Finley has been one of the season’s big fantasy disappointments. But Green Bay Packers offensive coordinator Tom Clements hopes that the tight end will become a bigger part of the passing game as the team enters the second half of the season. Injuries have contributed to some of Finley’s issues this season, but drops have continued to be a problem as well — not to mention an alleged lack of chemistry between tight end and quarterback. While the idea of more targets for Finley is welcomed by fantasy football owners, let’s not get too excited until it actually happens.

Steelers starting RB still uncertain: The revolving door that is the Pittsburgh Steelers backfield continues to spin in Week 9. Isaac Redman has practiced fully this week after missing the past two weeks with a high ankle sprain. That has left Jonathan Dwyer — who has started the past two games and run for more than 100 yards in each — in limbo over his starting status. Redman, meanwhile, has yet to sniff 50 rushing yards in a game (although he did have 100 receiving yards in Week 6 against the Titans). Oh, and then there’s Rashard Mendenhall, who did practice this week, but doesn’t figure to play. The question of who starts may not be answered until later on Friday, but whoever gets the call faces a stout challenge from the New York Giants run defense.

Thomas down on Lions depth chart: The Detroit Lions acquired wide receiver Mike Thomas in a trade with the Jacksonville Jaguars earlier this week, but the fourth-year wideout doesn’t figure to be much of a factor in the offense. The Detroit News reports that Thomas will likely be fourth on the depth chart and used primarily as a special teams and utility player. That should be comforting for fantasy owners who have recently invested in Titus Young and Ryan Broyles. Now if only it could help Calvin Johnson find the end zone a little more often.

– Marcas Grant
Follow Marcas on Twitter @MarcasG


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

