Fantasy football: Michael Vick saving best for last

Not done yet: Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Michael Vick has been the subject of scrutiny this week, landing him on the hot-seat. Still, Vick believes a playoff run is on the verge. The veteran texted Sal Paolantonio, “Ready to make a playoff run,” Vick wrote. “One play at a time. One game time.”Fantasy owners have also been ready to bench Vick, but now might be the time to actually trust in him instead of abandoning the Virginia Tech product. Aside from his Week 10 and 13 matchups against the Cowboys, Vick faces the Saints, Buccaneers, Panthers and Redskins twice. The Panthers are 15th versus the pass, but the Saints, Bucs, and Skins are the three worst teams in the NFL in passing defense. Combined, they’ve allowed 43 touchdowns on the season, compared to just 23 interceptions while also ranking among the worst in first down percentage. And don’t be scared off by the Cowboys matchups; in their two meetings last season, Vick averaged 286 yards passing and threw four touchdowns with zero interceptions.

Uncharged: Another quarterback facing scrutiny but far more secure in his job is the San Diego Chargers’ Philip Rivers. Like Vick, he’s been far from a dependable option and his prospects for Thursday Night Football are not looking up according to recent history. In his Week 4 matchup against the Chiefs, Rivers was only able to notch 14.36 fantasy points. Believe it or not, that was actually one of his better performances this season. In two games against the Chiefs in 2011, Rivers totaled 635 yards, but failed to toss a touchdown while racking up four interceptions and three fumbles. A primetime matchup could yield better results, but be warned.

Still high: Speaking with NFL.com’s Ian Rapoport, Dallas Cowboys COO Stephen Jones still has trust in quarterback Tony Romo. “We have a lot of confidence in Tony,” Jones said. “That game (Giants vs. Cowboys) is a perfect example. There’s a lot of quarterbacks that would’ve had a hard time rallying from that type of adversity. Gotta give him a lot of credit. I think he’s going to get better. For fantasy owners, that confidence might not be as high heading into his matchup against the Atlanta Falcons. This defensive unit is tied for the second-fewest passing touchdowns allowed, giving up just seven scores compared to ten interceptions. The good news is that in three home games this season, they’ve allowed four of those scores. Still, take away Romo’s rushing touchdown last week and fantasy owners would have walked away with just 13.48 points, which has been right around the norm for the veteran.

-Adrian Mojica
Follow on Twitter @FFFdaily


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

