NFL fantasy football: Michael Vick remains starter

Vick to start Week 9: We’ve had one of the biggest fantasy questions of the week answered — and it’s only Wednesday. Philadelphia Eagles head coach Andy Reid announced that Michael Vick will be the starting quarterback this week when the Eagles face the New Orleans Saints. Vick has given his fantasy owners more scares than a haunted house this season but consider the Saints defense to be your safe haven. There’s still a chance the quarterback will cough up a turnover or two, but with New Orleans’ defense being of the NFL’s most pliable in 2012, Vick should produce for fantasy owners this week.

Tannehill takes first-team reps: Despite leaving last week’s game with a hyperextended knee, it looks like Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill is on track to start this week. Tannehill took reps with the first team offense during the open portion of Dolphins practice Wednesday, meaning backup Matt Moore is likely headed back to the bench for Sunday’s game against the Indianapolis Colts. Tannehill likely won’t be a lot of people’s first choice as a starting fantasy quarterback this week, but considering the Colts have allowed the 11th-most fantasy points to the position, you could certainly do worse this week.

Starks could see more work: Green Bay Packers running back Alex Green didn’t make much of an impact in last week’s win over the Jacksonville Jaguars. But despite averaging just 2.5 yards per carry, coach Mike McCarthy says Green will be his lead rusher going forward. However, McCarthy added that James Starks could begin to see more work. Green wasn’t a particularly attractive option against the Arizona Cardinals this week and if he is going to lose a few touches to Starks, he’s even less appealing as a starting option.

– Marcas Grant
Follow Marcas on Twitter @MarcasG


Guidelines: Fan feedback should be within the guidelines for the NFL community. These guidelines will be used to identify those comments that will be removed from display on the site. Please keep your comments relevant to the topic, not abusive or combatant towards other fans, and don’t share any personal details. To report inappropriate comments, click the “X” that appears in the top right corner when your mouse is hovered over the chosen comment.

Comments may be no longer than 2000 characters and will post to the site shortly after submitting.

