November 06, 2012
The Morning Wrap

Election Day: In case you somehow missed it, today is the day the nation votes for president. Residents in two small New Hampshire towns, Dixville Notch has 10 voters and Hart's Location has 37, became the first to cast ballots just after midnight Tuesday. The polls close in Virginia at 7 p.m. and Maryland at 8 p.m., at which time most of the states with the closest races will have closed their polls.

But Wait...: Whether the country will know who is president by the end of the day... that's a different story. If it comes down to a recount in Ohio, the results of the election might not be decided until December, The New York Times reports. Nate Silver, the mathematics wiz who now analyzes poll data for the New York Times, has increased President Barack Obama's chances of victory to 91.6 percent.

Hot Judicial Election Action: Federal judge Gregory Frost in Ohio is hearing a complaint this morning that alleges last-minute updates to the computer programs inside voting machines there could allow someone to alter ballots, The Associated Press reports. Judge Algenon Marbley in Ohio set a hearing Wednesday to hear arguments about the rules for counting provisional ballots in Ohio, Politico reports.

In Other News: Federal Judge Barbara Crabb of the Western District of Wisconsin threw out with prejudice one of Apple's many lawsuits against Motorola Mobility, a case which generated more than 500 court filings in the 20 months, The Motley Fool reports.

Judicial Deaths: Two retired federal district judges who were appointed by Gerald Ford in 1976 died over the weekend. Glen Williams, 92, a judge in the Western District of Virginia for 34 years who helped shape controversial coal-mining environmental laws, died Sunday, according to the Richmond Times-Democrat. And Charles Schwartz Jr., a judge in the Eastern District of Louisiana who presided over the racketeering case that brought down U.S. Rep. Richard "Rick" Tonry, died Saturday, The Times-Picayune reports.



