Update/Joint Statement with Chris Locke

Chris Locke and I agreed to publish a statement, together (both in our own words) in advance of the story which will appear tomorrow (Monday, April 2) on CNN, at 7:20 AM (EST) on "CNN American Morning", and throughout the day on other CNN shows.

A quick explanation for the critics:

When I was first bombarded by the media about this story, I refused to answer questions. Having no media experience, I found that when you don't answer a reporter, they'll tell your story without you, so I agreed to speak with a few. When I was asked for a short CNN interview, I said that I would do it only if they would let me invite Chris Locke as well. Needless to say, everyone including Chris was stunned to hear this.

But these stories should not be about me... I am simply one of a gazillion examples about what's happening today both on and offline. Nor is it a simple Nice Vs. Bully story, and I thought having us come to an understanding would encourage others to stop fighting on either of our behalves and try to listen first, and then talk, and maybe something good and useful really will come of this.

Although I've learned a lot in the last few days, I still do not know who made the unclebobism photo post, or why, or whether that person is a real threat. That part of the story has continued to devolve in even scarier ways.

So, this is the last post I'll make for some time, and I've closed comments because I cannot keep up with the hateful ones (including those that post my home address and social security number, etc.)

I'm sure I'll be back in the future.

I appreciate the overwhelming support here and elsewhere more than I can possibly say.

I cannot thank you enough for your stories and encouragement and kind words.

I hope that people will continue talking, and with less rage on either side of the issue and more productive ideas for what to do going forward.

Posted by Kathy on April 2, 2007  


 URL for this entry:
http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451b44369e200d83454633269e2

Listed below are links to weblogs that reference Update/Joint Statement with Chris Locke:

» Statement by Chris Locke and Kathy Sierra Regarding the Recent Firestorm from OpenOffice.org Training, Tips, and Ideas
Kathy Sierra and Chris Locke (aka Rageboy) have posted a coordinated statement. http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2007/04/updatejoint_sta.html http://www.rageboy.com/statements-sierra-locke.html Chris says, among other things: Misog... [Read More]

Tracked on Apr 2, 2007 8:49:51 AM

» Kathy Sierra, Chris Locke, and Due Process from Phil Windley's Technometria
The post I made about Kathy Sierra's harassment at the hands of trolls continues to see considerable traffic from Google. Over the week end, Kathy and Chris Locke (who was linked to the harassing posts in Kathy's original post,... [Read More]

Tracked on Apr 2, 2007 11:36:00 AM

» Dark Side of Blogging from Kushtrim Xhakli
CNN covered the story of recent blog death threats including both protagonists Kathy Sierra and Chris Locke. Robert Scoble as a first degree observer of this issue was not included in a footage even was filmed. Popularity: unranked [?]... [Read More]

Tracked on Apr 2, 2007 3:01:13 PM

» The Firestorm is Over, Let the Forensics Begin from The View From My Feet
So, it looks like the firestorm over the threats received by Kathy Sierra may be over. I admit that I have not done extensive reading on this since looking at Kathy's first post, but her latest blog entry as well as the joint statement with Chris Loc... [Read More]

Tracked on Apr 3, 2007 8:49:06 AM

» Women, Blogging, and Boundaries from Conversion Rate Marketing Blog -->GrokDotCom by Future Now, Inc
When Jeffrey Eisenberg sends you an email with “Read This” in the subject heading and nothing in the message but a link, you expect it to be important. And important it was; a post titled “Should Women Be Afraid to Blog?” commenting on Kathy S... [Read More]

Tracked on Apr 3, 2007 7:02:00 PM

» Update/Joint Statement with Chris Locke from Lee Hopkins: Better Communication Results - business communication, online, blog and podcast consultant
Oh Kathy, our hearts are with with you! Update/Joint Statement with Chris Locke Chris Locke and I agreed to publish a statement, together (both in our own words) in advance of the story which will appear tomorrow (Monday, April 2) on CNN, at 7:20 AM ... [Read More]

Tracked on Apr 4, 2007 9:41:43 AM

» Kathy Sierra, next steps from Silence and Voice
So, Kathy Sierraseems to be directly addressing her (or more extensively, our) challengeswith the online vicious attacks she has suffered. In an extended way, I think these attacks can perhaps be applied to all of us. The difference is that... [Read More]

Tracked on Apr 5, 2007 1:48:11 PM





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS






