
Jun
28
Make Breathtaking Movies from Your Photos

Making a photo slideshow with music has become extremely popular in the age of digital photography. Slideshows are fun to create and share. Avid photographers have probably tried a number of free or commercial applications for making picture movies. Some want slideshow software to be packed with features and customization tools, others look for convenience and usability, still others need rich output options.

In this review we’ll take a look at Photo Slideshow Creator 3.0 from AMS Software. Being developed since 2005, this photo to video converter has by now become a powerful all-in-one application. It will meet the needs of both professional photographers and non-tech savvy home users. The trial version of Photo Slideshow Creator is freely available from the official website.

Let’s go through the key features of Photo Slideshow Creator 3.0 from launch to final production stage.

When you start the program, a wizard suggests choosing between creating a slideshow from scratch and using Slideshow Templates. Templates allow preparing the project in 3 steps: theme, photos, soundtrack. The wizard-driven mode is perfect for studying the program features and last-minute projects. Experienced users will definitely prefer the manual mode with the classical storyboard and full control over all tools.

When it comes to arranging slides and transitions, Photo Slideshow Creator has an intuitive drag-and-drop interface, along with an ability to add a folder full of photos, or apply a certain transition or background theme to all slides. By clicking the Edit Slide button you get access to the properties of the current slide – here you can adjust everything from duration and zoom to text captions and effects. At every stage of the work it’s easy to preview the project from current slide, or open full-screen preview.

Special effects deserve a special mention. In addition to pan-and-zoom and rotation effects found in many similar programs today, Photo Slideshow Creator 3.0 introduces a selection of artistic effects based on color filters. There are tools for standard image enhancement – brightness, contrast, saturation, and fancy filters like mosaic, old film, color hue, etc. Playing with colors becomes even more exciting thanks to effect faders. You can apply more than several effects to each slide, and make some fade in and others fade out – this unique feature lets you create fantastic impressions.

We cannot imagine a movie without a soundtrack. Managing audio is very convenient in Photo Slideshow Creator. Add any number of songs in MP3, WMA, or WAV, or your own voice narration in one of these formats. To adjust audio duration, cut the soundtrack in the program, or synchronize it with the slides. You can also loop music or shuffle several soundtracks; music faders are there as well.

At the export stage, the slideshow can be converted to a number of common video formats, a self-running EXE file, or a screensaver. DVD burning is integrated too. Converting the slideshow to video, choose between standard AVI or MP4, mobile-optimized video, and Web-friendly formats for sharing online. Output formats include HD-ready and Full HD. The video settings such as codec, bit rate, frame rate, aspect ratio, as well as the audio stream settings, are optimized for each type of video. However, you can easily access and modify these settings.

All in all, Photo Slideshow Creator 3.0 is certain to meet your expectations if you’re looking for a powerful photo-video converter with creative tools. At the photo slideshow software website you will find extensive supporting materials: online tutorials, video lessons and demos. Learn more…





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





Guiery says:	
October 26, 2012 at 1:00 am	

Women’s Long Sleeve Sweaters performing with a dark color mixed with white shirts that fit to travel and go to college and activity. 3w dot thesellingvalley dot com cardigan for women Jones New York Women’s Long Sleeve sweater is actually almost the same only different on the neck just yet for the manufacture of the same.
sweaters Cardigan Jones New York Women’s Long Sleeve color dark suitable for teens when viewed material is thick sweater and a trend on campus in 2012
3w dot thesellingvalley dot com long sweaters Jones New York Women’s Long Sleeve color berwarna abu-abu perpaduan putih dan gelap cocok untuk wanita dewasa dan cocok untuk berkantor dan beraktifitas untuk bahan sama dengan dan sweater ini dibuat longgar see the website?3w dot thesellingvalley dot com
	
leegmoser says:	
October 21, 2012 at 11:28 pm	

Excellent publish. you put such an excellent software . I’ll be wait for more publish from you.
	
Krishna says:	
October 18, 2012 at 11:05 am	

Btw, this is something New which is impressive and great!
	
Krishna@techmero says:	
October 18, 2012 at 11:02 am	

Hello, you have given here, very nice start up, thank you for this :)
	
Marcello Bergamin. says:	
October 11, 2012 at 2:13 pm	

Hello take it easy have a nice live !!!
Thank you very much.
Dicovery is really a cool program!!!
	

    Marcello Bergamin. says:	
    October 11, 2012 at 2:31 pm	

    I wanna paste a fhoto butt i dont now how hahahaha !
    	

Marcello Bergamin. says:	
October 11, 2012 at 2:07 pm	

Hello take it easy have a nice live !!!
Thank you very much.
	
marcello bergamin says:	
October 11, 2012 at 2:05 pm	

Hello take it easy have a nice live !!!
	
????? says:	
October 11, 2012 at 3:29 am	

???????????????????????????? ????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ????????
	
Melissa says:	
October 9, 2012 at 5:12 am	

Here’s another interesting free tools to fun with photo: visit – http://www.infoheaps.com/free-photos-editing-software-edit-photos-online/
	
mfkrh says:	
October 4, 2012 at 1:47 pm	

You are right. Writing controversial posts is a good way to attract attention. This is the format that I used to write in my heydays.
	
longchamp sac says:	
October 3, 2012 at 3:20 am	

Beaucoup de gens disent parfois que le temps scolaire est certainement le plus mémorable, qui est fleur cassé compact toile truffée de sac s, devenue impérative, nous qui le pronom vertes années, rarement être âge concerné, de loin le plus comme copains et confortable sac pour profiter du paysage dans la nature.
	
burberry sacs à main says:	
October 3, 2012 at 3:16 am	

Règles sur la conception symétrique constamment laissez un sens visuel de la personne détendue, sans tracas et ne donne pas un coup d’oeil la modélisation pression individuelle, dans n’importe quel s pouvez met glorieux significativement. N’importe quelle saison, chouette orange aller exactement où, sont sans aucun doute mai être une ligne de paysages à couper le souffle, a eu lieu laissez-le un ours individuel à l’esprit charmante figure.
	
Adil says:	
October 2, 2012 at 5:33 pm	

I am a newbie web developer and i have been looking for inspiration to build up my new theme for my upcoming blog. I have been stumbling upon several websites but this is the best and most beautiful design for me .. please inbox me and share me some tips how can i develop a similar theme .. i appreciate how you purchased this blog and took it to next level, respect xxx
	
Fraakz says:	
September 29, 2012 at 10:35 am	

This software looks cool. I want such software’s because often we do need to make a movie out of pictures. Thanks for the nice review
	
longchamp sac says:	
September 28, 2012 at 12:56 am	

If you’re a sweet lovers, a such pieces of hand bag need to be capable to play a hope the impact! This 1 season is extremely favorite within the chain of decoration, exceptionally joker, can match modest foreign outfit, also can match handsome neutral pants outfit, it is actually the crucial sheet is tasted.
	
Hassan says:	
September 27, 2012 at 11:42 pm	

it is an interesting and I learn some thing new about this software.
thanks for this interesting post.
	
converse says:	
September 18, 2012 at 10:37 pm	

wow, it’s very nice
	

    dora games says:	
    September 23, 2012 at 6:51 am	

    A topic near to my heart thanks, please consider a follow up post. good day!
    	

mDobrev says:	
September 10, 2012 at 2:09 am	

looks very interesting program. Just so I needed! I’ll try it.
	
ghd styler says:	
September 10, 2012 at 12:44 am	

Vert orchidée spéciale mot miniature de conseils plus easy.flat fers propres s’installe en regardant le fait indéniable que MK3 apprécié actuellement incluent généralement un plus grand choix de spécifications formidables, beaucoup comme??mode sommeil » le particulier fabriqué en fonction de la prévention, qui généralement obtient instantanément je dirais le défrisant annulé lors de l’un-exercised en ce qui concerne les 15 minutes.
	

    baby games says:	
    September 23, 2012 at 6:53 am	

    I guess I am not the only one having all the enjoyment here! keep up the good work
    	

burberry outlet says:	
September 10, 2012 at 12:43 am	

This could be truly life-supporting especially whether you happen to be in eBay trading. The competitors in eBay is surely distinguished as well as it is advisable to possess the capability to preserve a aggressive price tag. Signature pouches could possibly be cast becoming sold in a low cost value tag.
	
ergo baby says:	
September 8, 2012 at 1:15 am	

Feeding a infant should really be done on demand and not by adhering to a strict schedule. The infant carrier options padded shoulders and waist, is purposed for carrying the tot inside the front or back based on their age and weight, and accessories are purchasable just like an infant insert as well as a sucking or drool pad. Created with 100 percent cotton, it tends to make the carrier comfy as it is intentionally made to possess soft edges.
	

    bubble trouble says:	
    September 26, 2012 at 7:58 pm	

    I don’t regret that spent a few of minutes for reading. Write more often, surely’ll come to read something new
    	

ergobaby carrier says:	
August 31, 2012 at 11:47 pm	

They are committed to giving babies the most optimal assistance and comfort though being carried. This mission has led towards the integration the contributions of study studies, consumer feedback, chiropractic support, and working straight with newborns in the design of the NEW Baby heart-2-heart Infant Insert. This new version carries the infant within the tummy-to-tummy position, therefore the name heart-2-heart. et/
	
burberry outlet says:	
August 31, 2012 at 11:44 pm	

Earlier when someone bought a vehicle, it put to use to become a asset for lifetime but these days, following working with a certain automobile for some years they may be disposing it off and ordering a new one particular. Even particular luxuries have come to be necessity at present. Previously most of the people travelled in public transport but now each person has a vehicle to travel hence the public transports decreased in quantity producing a car an important item for living. Similarly in situation of trendy products they want for diverse items in most cases alter with time. As style is some thing subjective to time taste also modifications with time. Today if anything is in tomorrow it is out in the industry because it really is no even more the most recent trend.
	
fitflop says:	
August 12, 2012 at 11:50 pm	

Whenever we feel of taking care of shoes the only purpose that sparks into our mind is, if we’ll appear following them they’re going to look very good and in return with all the guide of them we’ll appear fantastic and presentable. But what we obtain with this activity of ours is a lot a lot more that this, as together with the correct care we can really make those shoes look far better and younger for a longer period of time.
	
DHgate says:	
August 8, 2012 at 9:06 pm	

Excellent post! Hope you can write more posts or I’ll be thirst for this.
Above all, spoiled by the spam comments.
	
Best Magazine wordpress Themes says:	
August 6, 2012 at 7:39 am	

This is a great theme, thanks for the great job!
	
xiamen says:	
August 6, 2012 at 12:30 am	

good software?
	
xmjie says:	
August 6, 2012 at 12:24 am	

this software is good??
	
pro says:	
August 5, 2012 at 3:45 am	

Please remove all spam comment
	
mfkrh says:	
July 31, 2012 at 10:27 pm	

????????????????????????
	
Jonathan Smith says:	
July 27, 2012 at 8:45 am	

this software is good so far when i read your review. May i know is it free software?
	

    Larry Keates says:	
    July 31, 2012 at 5:04 am	

    The trial is free, though there’s a slide limit in the trial
    	

bcklord says:	
July 24, 2012 at 5:57 am	

I like that this is easy to use for anyone.
	
New Premium WordPress Themes says:	
July 23, 2012 at 11:07 pm	

I like that this is easy to use for anyone.
	
sac longchamp pas cher says:	
July 23, 2012 at 1:40 am	

Nous vous remercions de nous souhaitant tous les moments de possibilités de paix, de clarté et de l’infini. Gardez à l’écriture et nous continuons à lire comme un blog très agréable et inspirante.
	
Enter your name... says:	
July 22, 2012 at 9:49 pm	

Life is just like a war zone, if you want to get something, he must be

very hard to get. The wisdom of the capitulation was equal to its

humanity. Its moderation and justice stood in direct opposition and

contrast with the domineering .
	
Rajkumar Jonnala says:	
July 13, 2012 at 5:07 am	

I don’t why admin is accepting Spam Comments.. when there is no use. Please Remove all Spam comments…
	
??????? says:	
July 10, 2012 at 11:59 pm	

???????????????????
	
???? says:	
July 9, 2012 at 5:25 am	

great????
	
?????? says:	
July 5, 2012 at 12:56 am	

???? ????
	
??seo says:	
June 30, 2012 at 12:26 am	

??????????????????????????????
	

