Worn-out, powerless residents dig in as nor'easter hits
By David Ariosto, CNN
updated 4:22 PM EST, Wed November 7, 2012

Affected by the nor'easter? Share your story with us on CNN iReport.

New York (CNN) -- A wintry mix of heavy rain, wind and snow bore down on the U.S. Northeast on Wednesday, as more than 600,000 households that have been without power for nine days prepared for a long and cold night.

Forecasters predicted wind gusts of up to 60 mph in shore towns and cities across New York and New Jersey, bringing 2- to 4-foot storm surges just as homes and office buildings dry out and flood waters recede after Superstorm Sandy.

The erosion of coastlines by last week's weather has renewed fears of more flooding in storm-battered communities, while the incoming barrage of cold weather will likely hamper utility restoration efforts across the region.

"Strong winds, combined with the saturated soils after Sandy's impact, will create another threat for more downed trees and power lines," CNN meteorologist Sarah Dillingham said. "The silver lining there may be that Sandy took many of the leaves off the trees, so there might not be as many downed trees and branches this time."

Cold brings fresh misery to Sandy victims, many still without power

Meanwhile, below-freezing temperatures ushered in snow and potentially deadly conditions for those without shelter, as displaced residents struggled to stay warm with generators and blankets. Others continue to camp with family and neighbors as they wait for their electricity to turn back on.

Overnight, about 8,500 Sandy victims were forced to take refuge in more than 100 Red Cross shelters. And by Wednesday night, temperatures could again dip into the 20s, forecasters said.

"We think we're ready for anything," said New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, ordering additional emergency vehicles to patrol the city while advising residents to check on neighbors.

Bloomberg did not issue an evacuation as he did during Sandy, but did order beaches and parks closed until the storm had passed. Several storm centers were opened for displaced residents or those without power.

With storm on the way, Bloomberg tells struggling New Yorkers to get off the road

But more than a week after Sandy hit, the continued recovery effort and incoming storm has left thousands tired, homeless and looking for answers.

In New York, as many as 20,000 households across New York City and Westchester were not expected to be back online by the weekend because of internal electrical damage to their homes, officials said.

That will require certified contractors to go door-to-door to check the electrical wiring on each home and business to make sure salt-caked wiring will not ignite when the power is restored, further complicating life for those still in the dark.

Superstorm Sandy's victims

In Long Island's hard-hit coastal areas, towns such as Oceanside still were largely without power.

"The lights came on for three minutes here. Everybody cheered like A-Rod (Alex Rodriguez) hit one out at Yankee Stadium," said Rick Wolkenberg. "Then there was this weird hum and everything went out again. They teased us, and now were sitting here in the dark again."

The 59-year-old mortgage lender said his staff has for days been working in his office by means of a small generator and flashlights.

"Everyone's really frazzled, angry," he said. "It's not just the power. Now it's getting an electrician to evaluate the house, then getting a plumber -- and nobody's coming because they're all overwhelmed."

His 81-year-old mother, Edith, has moved in with his family after Sandy slammed through Oceanside and rendered her home unlivable.

"There just seems so many obstacles now," Wolkenberg said.

More than 170,000 households remained without power Wednesday in areas across Long Beach, Atlantic Beach, Fire Island and Rockaway Peninsula.

But Con Edison said it had restored power to more 90% of its customers, leaving 12,500 households in Queens, 10,400 in Brooklyn, 3,500 in Staten Island and 4,200 in the Bronx without electricity as the cold weather moved in.

About 39,000 customers in Westchester County also remained in the dark.

New York City "is taking significant precautions in advance of the storm, including halting all construction, closing all city parks, encouraging drivers to stay off the road after 5 p.m.," said Julie Wood, Bloomberg's deputy press secretary.

She also cautioned residents in the city's low-lying areas -- especially Breezy Point, Hamilton Beach and Gerristen Beach -- to "consider taking shelter with family or friends, or at a city-run shelter."

By Wednesday, New Jersey's largest power provider, PSE&G, said it had restored power to about 89% of its storm-hit customers, leaving more than 190,000 still in the dark.

"It is like a war zone down there," New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie said, referring to places such as Mantoloking in Ocean County. Heavy flooding and fires wiped out large sections of the town last week.

At least 20 homes burned to the ground there, mirroring a similar incident in Breezy Point, a neighborhood in Queens, New York, where a cluster of more than 100 houses caught fire during the storm.

"We don't know what to expect for the flooding situation as the shorelines have been changed," Christie said. "For many of them, the dunes are gone. So moderate flooding under normal conditions become major in these conditions."

More than three-fourths of the state's school systems are now back up and operating. And people who have lost their jobs on account of the storm should file for disaster unemployment relief with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Christie said.

He also reminded residents who lost vacation homes to Sandy to look to their insurance providers, rather than FEMA, for compensation.

Elsewhere, there were signs of the region rebounding.

The PATH train between New Jersey and New York restarted limited service under the Hudson River on Tuesday, after being shut down ahead of the storm.

Commuter traffic also was reopened early Wednesday in the Holland Tunnel, where about 91,000 vehicles typically pass under the Hudson River between Manhattan and Jersey City, New Jersey.

Air travel continues to be affected. Authorities advised air travelers to check with their carriers ahead of the storm.

"Airlines serving the Port Authority's major airports -- Newark Liberty International, John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia -- have canceled all or a significant number of their flights beginning at noon today and continuing through early tomorrow," the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said in a Wednesday statement.

United Airlines, the world's largest air carrier, suspended most New York City service starting at noon, while American Airlines was expected to shut down in New York at 3 p.m. and stop flights to and from Philadelphia by noon.

More 600 flights in the New York region have already been canceled, said Port Authority spokesman Ron Marsico, who expects that number to rise above a thousand by day's end.

More than 100 Philadelphia flights were canceled, with travelers experiencing up to two hour delays.

The storm that broke records -- and hearts
