
2014 Acura RLX - Review

Acura's top-shelf sedan is all-new for 2014, and while its mission as a luxury performance sedan and the brand's technology flagship hasn't changed, its name has: to RLX. In addition, a new hybrid system, special torque-vectoring all-wheel drive, and four-wheel steering should push this sedan higher up on luxury shoppers' lists, while with a somewhat more spacious cabin and more luxurious interior it should live up to comfort expectations more than ever.

The 2014 Acura RLX, which should arrive to U.S. dealerships in the first half of 2014, will quite closely follow the direction and details of the thinly veiled RLX concept from the 2013 New York Auto Show. The 'Keen Edge' design theme is keynoted in front by Acura's 'Jewel Eye' LED headlamps—framed in a dual-stacked array, with ultra-reflective optical lenses, that should be distinctive day or night. Graceful, subtle sheetmetal flows into the rear lamps, while the smoothly arched roofline and somewhat aggressive stance are attractive but not groundbreaking.

Models with an all-new Sport Hybrid system will be the best-performing in the lineup, not only from a performance perspective but from a green one. They get a new triple-electric-motor hybrid system and lithium-ion battery pack, in addition to the 3.5-liter V-6, and two electric motors power the rear wheels for this latest version of Acura's SH-AWD (all-wheel drive) system. These models should boast an anticipated EPA fuel economy rating of 30 miles per gallon city and highway, as well as a 30-mpg Combined figure.

There will also be a front-wheel-drive version of the RLX, featuring a 310-hp version of the new 3.5-liter V-6, plus a special Precision All Wheel Steer system that changes rear-wheel toe angles with electronic actuators—using the rear wheels to aid handling responsiveness. Suspension remains a double-wishbone layout in front and multi-link setup in back, with an active damping system and variable-ratio electric power steering, but new suspension geometry and a substantially lighter body structure—with a curb weight under 4,000 pounds for the front-wheel-drive model—should keep the RLX feeling rather lean from the driver's seat.

Yet it's likely going to factor in as even more spacious than the outgoing RL. The 2014 Acura RLX remains about the same size as the outgoing RL sedan, although overhang has been shortened somewhat and the wheelbase is two inches longer—which together with two more inches of width, in all, should mean more passenger space inside.

Safety will again be a central focus for Acura's flagship sedan. The brand's first application of Lane Keep Assist will be available, while all RLX models will include Forward Collision Warning and Lane Departure Warning. In addition to the usual roster of safety features and airbags, the 2014 RLX will include a driver's front knee bag, and Acura is already expecting top five-star scores from the federal government and the upcoming Safety Pick Plus status from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS).

The new RLX will also feature a next-generation AcuraLink Communication system, with dual LCD display screens, high-end audio, and an expanded range of infotainment and connectivity features.
