Land Rover Range Rover History

The Land Rover Range Rover is a five-passenger sport-utility vehicle, built in England and one of the most storied SUVs of all time. It's a regular member of the fleet in the Royal Family's garage--and it's a status symbol for drivers around the world who appreciate its finery as much as its off-road expertise. It competes with vehicles like the Mercedes-Benz GL-Class, the Lexus LX, and the Cadillac Escalade.

Though it's been in production since 1970, the Range Rover has only been built in three distinct generations, all defined by some common traits. Since 1970, the Range Rover has been built on a frame with aluminum body panels. It evolved over its early life from a utilitarian vehicle into a more luxurious sport-ute that went on sale in the U.S. in 1986, by the automaker's American arm, Range Rover North America. The "classic" Range Rover had other American ties; its V-8 engine had been developed from an engine sold by Buick for decades. By the time it arrived in the U.S., the Range Rover used a 3.5-liter version of the V-8. By the mid-1990s it had grown in displacement to 4.3 liters, and the SUV itself had gained a long-wheelbase edition.

BMW and Ford eras

In 1990, BMW acquired what had become the Land Rover brand. A new Range Rover was developed and introduced in the 1995 model year. The Buick-derived V-8 carried over in the second-generation SUV, while other markets also had diesel engine options. A BMW-derived 4.4-liter V-8 was introduced during this generation. Self-leveling air shocks and sophisticated off-road mechanicals were standard on American versions, as were an automatic transmission and anti-lock brakes. Of all the criticism lobbed at this Range Rover--reliability chief among them--the almost plain exterior shape visually conveyed how the times had changed at Land Rover.

In 1999, Land Rover changed hands again. BMW sold the brand to Ford, and delivered a nearly-completed third generation of the Range Rover. The new vehicle emerged as a 2003 model, with a more expressive style, even more technology under its sheetmetal, and the existing BMW-derived powertrain installed. The Range Rover now was a unibody vehicle, and an air suspension interlinked with electronic controls for braking gave it even more on-road prowess. Passenger space was improved, and build quality was Land Rover's best-ever: the new Range Rover's interior wore especially striking blends of vertical bands of wood trim and leather. Reaching even further upmarket, the Range Rover came to the U.S. fully equipped with standard navigation system, rearview camera, sunroof and leather upholstery.

During this generation, Ford worked with its other British acquisition, Jaguar, to build common V-8 engines for both brands. The new engines emerged in the 2006 model year: a 4.4-liter V-8 produced 305 horsepower, and a supercharged version of the engine put out 400 hp. The accompanying facelift brought some interior refinements to the Range Rover, including a new LCD screen that controlled the vehicle's navigation, audio, and climate controls.

In the 2010 model year, the Range Rover received its most substantial changes since 2003. Subtle changes to the headlights, grille, and bumper marked the exterior, but inside, the SUV received a finer interior with a much larger LCD screen. The powertrains were upsized for more performance: a new 5.0-liter V-8 shared with Jaguar earned 375 hp in base Range Rovers, while the supercharged version put out 510 hp, enough to accelerate to 60 mph in 5.9 seconds--while still able to tow more than 7700 pounds. The drivetrains carries over through the end of the generation in 2012, along with a newly tuned adaptive suspension and a revamped Terrain Response system with hill-start assist integrated with the Rover's stability control system. Equipment remained royally complete; heated front and rear seats, a power tilt-and-slide sunroof, LED interior lighting, and Bluetooth integration are available, as are a range of wood and leather interior options.

2013 Land Rover Range Rover

For the 2013 model year, the Range Rover gets a complete reinvention. It's now built from an aluminum architecture, a weight savings worth 700 pounds in the five-seat SUV. It also enables a 4.5-inch stretch in wheelbase for much better rear-seat room, though overall length is up just more than an inch.

Styling is less of a departure, and simplicity and elegance are keywords. The grille's toned down to be more friendly, and the added length gives the Range Rover a suitably regal stance. Few details break out of its smoothly formed aluminum body panels as broadly as the vertical vents just ahead of the front doors; they can be painted to contrast with the body color, and to coordinate with a sill color, for a uniquely catchy or distracting body line. The interior's just as refined, or more so, with an emphasis on leather and wood and LCD touchscreens, and rotary shift knobs for both the transmission and the off-road mode selector.

In the lighter body, Land Rover promises sterling performance from the V-8s. The 375-hp model's now as quick as the old supercharged version, at 6.5 seconds to 60 mph; the supercharged SUV's 5.1-second trip to 60 mph competes with Jaguar's XJR. Fuel economy is pegged at a 9-percent improvement. Off-road performance remains unparalleled: there's full-time four-wheel drive, an air suspension, a maximum of 12.2 inches of ground clearance, and available automatic Terrain Response that selects traction modes based on conditions, from mud to snow to rocks to pavement. Towing remains 7,700 pounds maximum.

All Range Rovers will come with dual LCD screens, a wide 12.3-inch display that replaces traditional gauges, and an 8-inch touchscreen that runs infotainment systems on the center stack through a combination of soft and hard keys for functions from navigation to climate, phone, and audio. Leather upholstery will also be standard, while major options will include a panoramic sunroof; a Meridian sound system with 1,700 watts of power; surround-view cameras; cooler boxes; and a choice from among 37 exterior colors, 17 interior colors and 3 veneers.

For more information, see our full review of the 2013 Land Rover Range Rover.


