Mistakes were made, but few on election night

by Craig Silverman Published Nov. 7, 2012 11:11 am Updated Nov. 7, 2012 2:48 pm

The 2012 election will not be remembered for what the press got wrong.

News organizations made some mistakes on election night but quickly corrected them. That’s about as good a result as one can hope for on an evening where so many things can and often do go wrong.

The most notable election error was a rumor that spread on Twitter claiming NBC News had declared Elizabeth Warren the winner in her Massachusetts race for the Senate. (This was before she actually won.)
According to BuzzFeed, it originated with this tweet from the Center for American Progress’ Action Fund:

ThinkProgress and New York Magazine each passed along the information and then tweeted corrections. (CAP deleted the tweet and I don’t see a correction in its timeline):

Journalists took note and helped debunk the rumor:

In a positive development, NBC realized the rumor was spreading and decided to get Brian Williams to debunk it live on air. NBC News also sent out a tweet:

NBC News’ Lou Dubois helped spread the correct information:

And he offered a reminder to journalists:

Some news sites did make errors. The New York Times reported on a mistake that The Wall Street Journal made:

Digital First’s Adrienne LaFrance also tweeted about getting the mistaken alert:

The incorrect WSJ call may have been related to the fact that AP at one point also mistakenly called Michigan for Romney. It issued this correction alert:

Finally, as Jim Romenesko noted, the Cincinnati Enquirer mistakenly published a chart of voting data that was filled with dummy results rather than the real thing. It issued a correction:

It wasn’t a perfect night, but it’s encouraging that The Wall Street Journal and the Cincinnati Enquirer quickly issued corrections. And when NBC News was a victim of misinformation, it did a good job spreading the correct information on television and on Twitter.

Other mishaps: ABC had a brief blackout and Diane Sawyer was loopy.
