Nate Silver wins, and data is vindicated

by Andrew Beaujon Published Nov. 7, 2012 9:08 am Updated Nov. 7, 2012 11:56 am

The Huffington Post | Salon | Forbes | Newsday | Slate | Time | The Washington Examiner | The New York Times
New York Times polling blogger Nate Silver appears to have called every state correctly Tuesday after being needled for weeks by political commentators who ridiculed his method for forecasting election results.

Salon’s Jacob Sugarman posts two vindicatory maps. (If you prefer, you can view Christoph Niemann’s M&M-based map.) Jeff Bercovici attempted to quantify Silver’s victory: “There’s a 90.9% chance that tonight is going to cap the best three weeks of Nate Silver’s life,” he wrote before returns started coming in Tuesday. Silver “got the race right because he analyzed the data properly and honestly, something his critics were unable, or worse, unwilling, to do,” Lane Filler writes in Newsday.

Silver’s accuracy reflects better on the science of polling, Daniel Engber argues in Slate. Silver’s fans, he writes, are “giving credit to the bearer of good news. In doing so, they’ve made the same mistake that Silver’s critics made last week: They’ve confused his projected odds with hard-and-fast predictions, and underestimated the accuracy of polling.”

Paul Bradshaw writes that Silver’s journalist critics are an “embarrassment to the profession.”

Similarly, in what won’t be the first story about how Obama won, Michael Scherer profiles his campaign’s data operation.

In contrast, Byron York writes that Romney’s data initiative, “Project Orca,” was a flop.

Dylan Byers, who crusaded against Silver in various ways recently, tweeted a concession early Wednesday:

Silver didn’t gloat after the race was called exactly as he’d forecast (“we’re going to get some sleep and grab a beer,” he wrote), though he did link to his new book.

Silver talked about Obama’s win last night with Times blogs editor Megan Liberman. The subject of gambling came up and was quickly dismissed. 




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





    Anonymous

    data = plural. Just one example of many of how journos fail at using data.
    Anonymous

    data = plural. Just one example of many of how journos fail at using data.
    http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=656715835 Andrew Beaujon

    I have written about that! http://www.poynter.org/latest-news/mediawire/164155/hey-copy-editors-lets-loosen-the-cardigan-on-data-and-media/ But also the headline uses the term as a collective noun, which AP says to go singular on.
    http://twitter.com/barryhollander Barry Hollander

    As a number cruncher, I’m glad to see the models of Silver, et al., vindicated. Political pundits take anecdotes and turn them into data. The good news? Pundits have four years to go and take some classes in statistics and probability before they make fools of themselves again. Oh, and here’s a neat list of how the pundits called the election: http://bit.ly/VD5FM4
    http://www.facebook.com/robert.knilands Robert Knilands

    To me, this is like being the best buggy-whip maker of 2012. Short of exposing many of today’s journalists as lazy, opinion-based, and fact-myopic — something many people already knew if they were paying attention — what does this “victory” really accomplish?
    The real story is Obama’s campaign knowing where to allocate resources and Romney’s campaign apparently being confused. That concept is far more important than what some blogger predicted.
    Anonymous

    well, that probably isn’t the “real story,” but it is some of the story. romney had gop pros running his campaign, whether they ere outmaneuvered or not. and mutt had a pot full of money, which doesnt even count the incredible resources of his related super pacs. also, i think you are somewhat confusing “commentators/pundits” with “journalists.” there are similarities to be sure, but there ALSO is a difference.
    http://www.facebook.com/robert.knilands Robert Knilands

    The real story in this context. And the journalist reference comes straight from the segment about Bradshaw’s report. But diving into semantics is a good way to avoid seeking improvement — another primary goal of today’s JOURNALISTS.


