

November 8, 2012
Speak Louder Than The Nutella.



I tap my fingers on the table and check my phone again.

Nope, I hadn’t missed a text or call… in the last twelve seconds.

He said he would call today. He hasn’t.

The sun is starting to set, bringing the changing leaves into a brighter brilliance that on most days would put me in awe, but today? It just makes me feel alone.

Another day has started and now it is trying to end and yet my phone still hasn’t rung.

I’m still alone.

I feel un-thought-of. That’s not a thing, but it’s a thing, isn’t it?

Thinking that stepping away from the phone might make it ring [my crazy is showing, isn't it?], I stand up, walk to the kitchen, and pull a spoon out of the drawer. Just one scoop of Nutella will get my late afternoon back on track. Still more writing to do, deadlines to meet, emails to compose.

I pause at the cabinet. My counselor says that I have to determine a reason before I eat. [Yep, I see a counselor. And yep, we talk about food.] I usually bulldoze through that question, but in this moment, I actually stop. I stood there, spoon in the left hand and right hand steadied on the handle to open the cabinet to the Nutella.

Because I’m the only one home, I have an outloud conversation with myself.

“I’m not hungry,” I say into the emptiness of my kitchen, “I’m just alone. And sad. And I’m about to eat this Nutella because something in my brain says that it will satisfy this hurt.”

Whoa.

My grip tightens on the spoon and I slowly close my eyes.

“God, You’re gonna have to be louder than this Nutella.”

I turn away from the cabinet and I keep talking, saying the deep hurts of my heart and the disappointments and all the ways that I wish my life was different.

And then I’m finished.

I stand there. And nothing happens.

My phone doesn’t ring. I don’t see an angel. I don’t feel some supernatural strengthening in my soul… all the types of things that you would expect this story to end with? They don’t happen.

I just put the spoon away and come back to my computer, resigned. To what? I’m not sure, but that is the word I feel.

I’m reminded of my favorite verses, Psalm 73:25-26. My flesh and heart feel like they are failing, but He is the strength of my heart, my portion, forever.

I settle back down in front of my computer, and the background music begins….

I need You more, more than yesterday, 

I need You more, more than words can say,

I need You more than ever before,

I need You, Lord.

And it is true. I need Him more than anything. I am so quick to heal all my hurts in other ways when I should just go to Him, every time. I’m tired of being single? I think Nutella will make it better. I don’t know what it is you turn to – a person? A drink? A food? A television show? – but we all look for an escape hatch when this world hurts too much. I looked my escape hatch right in the door today and decided against it.

I don’t feel better. My phone is still the quietest piece of technology in this whole house and I’m annoyed about it.

But for today, my vice loses, my God wins, and somehow, my heart will survive it all.

. . . . .

[PS- there is NOTHING wrong with Nutella or eating or food or eating food. It's not the Nutella, it's my heart. It's using the Nutella to heal instead of spread on toast. Just wanted to make that clear. Okay, that's all, bye. :)]

By Annie Downs // AnnieBlogs




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Jen@Living a Listful{l} Life November 8, 2012 at 5:08 AM

    Wow. SO what I needed to read. It is true. Instead of turning to food or tv when I am down and out, I must turn to HIM. Thank you for the awesome reminder. You rock Annie. Just saying. :)

    
2 Jennifer Adams November 8, 2012 at 5:45 AM

    Girl, your honesty is inspiring! I need this reminder heading into the season of romance. Thanks for saying the right decision doesn’t make the pain go away. Sometimes we forget.

    
3 Tami Grandi November 8, 2012 at 5:48 AM

    ah- I so needed this today. This past month has been rough (professionally) and my old tendency would have been turning to food. and I realized that I still have some of those old tendencies in my life…

    
4 Southern Gal November 8, 2012 at 6:00 AM

    A good one, Annie. We have to give Him a chance at times.

    P.S. I’ve always said Nutella is from the debil. It’s too good for its own good.

    
5 Mindy @ New Equus - A New Creation November 8, 2012 at 6:47 AM

    You had me at Nutella!

    How many times I’ve unconsciously gotten a scoop for myself (I guess eating it out of a spoon is a universal thing!) and realized after that I really didn’t need that dose of calories. I was just trying to fill a hole…a God sized hole. And there isn’t enough Nutella in all the universe that will fill up that hole!

    Thanks for the reminder!

    
6 Liz November 8, 2012 at 7:35 AM

    Annie, I don’t know you aside from the words you write on this blog (beautiful post, by the way) but I do know that he is missing out if he doesn’t call. :)

    
7 Jennifer D. November 8, 2012 at 7:53 AM

    I had that EXACT same stop-me-in-my-tracks-at-the-pantry-door-voice experience 2 years ago when my dad had unexpected triple bypass surgery. I was home alone in my parents’ house. Well, with my 5 month old baby. We “just happened” to be there on holiday – we live overseas. He had been whisked away in an alliance and I thought “I need chocolate and I need it now. That will help.” And as I opened the pantry door, I just knew if i ate it then,it would be a sin. It would drive a wedge between me and God. It’s when I realized I use food instead of Him. Ouch. Thank you for this reminder. It is still a daily – hourly – struggle for me.

    
8 Bethany November 8, 2012 at 8:24 AM

    This was a such a fresh reminder today from the very post I wrote yesterday about the God shaped hole in my heart. How often I try to fill it with food, a friend, a man, tv, whatever. In this season I’m in it’s been such a gift relearning just who God is in my loneliness and deep thirst. I have been going back again and again to the woman at the well and remembering how Jesus told her that only He could fill her deep thirst with His living water. I am thankful, so thankful for that.

    
9 ~VA~ November 8, 2012 at 8:56 AM

    Annie, you are amazing…I so agree that sometimes it is so hard to wait for God to speak louder than whatever else I want to turn to for healing.

    
10 Lindsey Nobles November 8, 2012 at 9:21 AM

    You are beautiful, friend. Love you and your words. Thanks for bravely speaking truth. It helps. It really does.

    
11 Crizelle November 8, 2012 at 9:22 AM

    Annie, I need to constantly remind myself to stop grasping and controlling, and learn to release and receive by trusting God in every situation.

    
12 Athena November 8, 2012 at 9:27 AM

    Thanks for reminding me of this, Annie! As a newly-minted single gal myself (well, ok, it’s been a year and half but I’m still grieving and still missing former significant other), I completely relate. I haven’t ventured back into dating mostly out of fear, but in that fear and in my grief sometimes I turn to anything else but God. Strange because there was a season in my life where all I did was turn to Him in everything! But the beauty of this stumbling bumbling season of our lives may be that it exposes the depths of our weakness, and in so doing highlights our need for our Father. And we who write are blessed because we give a voice to the Spirit and fill those walking the same crazy journey with much hope (as you have done for me and I’ll be doing for others!)… Love you much Annie, and we’re going to make it somehow.

    
13 Andrea November 8, 2012 at 9:33 AM

    Oh my. Yes. This may sound strange, but thanks for writing this. Somehow knowing that I am not the only one having outloud conversations in my kitchen, and putting spoons back into drawers, and checking phones… that makes me feel LESS ALONE in the loneliness. Thank you.

    
14 Katie November 8, 2012 at 9:43 AM

    Whoa! I needed to read that. I needed to know that I am not alone in my struggle. How often, I find myself self medicating when all I really want is to feel God wrap His arms around me and tell me that He has me right where I need to be. Even though the struggle never changes, the medication is constantly changing. Food, yikes, is a big one for me. I’ve used relationships, shopping, exercise, really anything and everything that gets my focus off the One who can really heal my hurt. Kuddos to you for taking this opportunity to submit. Submit to your struggle, submit to your counselor’s advice, and ultimately submit to God. Thanks, too, for the morning cry. I needed that!!

    
15 Trisha November 8, 2012 at 9:48 AM

    Amen sister. I turn to all of the above in a situation to heal – comfort food, a cup of coffee, television, a movie, the quiet. (And not the quiet where I am waiting for a still, small voice, unfortunately)

    It is wonderful to know when we are alone that we are not ALONE. We are never without God and we are never without our sisters in Christ.

    (((((hugs)))))

    
16 Ina November 8, 2012 at 9:53 AM

    So, so b rave. And honest. And true. Thank you for the encouragement to just straight out ask Him for what we need, even when we don’t really know what that is.

    
17 amaris November 8, 2012 at 9:54 AM

    um, yes, hi, can we be friends?
    you are loverly.

    sometimes, it’s nice to know that someone else is in a tree that’s just as crazy and knotted as mine.

    thanks for hollerin’ from your tree.

    
18 Jessica November 8, 2012 at 10:00 AM

    I scrawled that verse from Psalm 73 on a piece of paper by my computer. I needed that. My heart needed that truth. Thanks for the honesty and openness. You are brave in your weakness. I could use a little more of that in my own life. Blessings sister.

    
19 Ashley N. Williams November 8, 2012 at 10:13 AM

    Ugh, as painful as it was to read & identify with this Annie, I thank you for writing it. Such a harsh reality for myself & so many other women.

    
20 Karen Fawcette November 8, 2012 at 10:19 AM

    oh m’gosh… that’s so me too… appreciate you being transparent! I talk to my counselor about it too… why do I do that? seems I have been conditioned since childhood that all the food I like is comfort food…. I have never ever grabbed a stalk of celery when I was feeling down! Too many times, though, I have not put that spoon down…and have told God (honest!) just let me be for a minute… I need to sulk… and later I tell Him I’m sorry. Got to, got to, remember to cry out and tell him to be stronger than whatever is appealing to my comfort craving at that moment! Thanks for the encouragement .. I can try harder next time… we are never really hungry for food at that moment, are we? ;-)

    
21 Emily November 8, 2012 at 10:22 AM

    Beautiful! Thank you for your honesty. How often I have also rushed to heal my hurts with things other than God.

    
22 Mariellen November 8, 2012 at 10:24 AM

    Hi Annie

    Last Saturday we had to put our sweet lil dog Bree down. She was suffering from so many health issues. She was the last to leave our empty nest. After watching our two grown girls leave town I always used to say I still have my one girl left Bree. What you shared today about the nutella is what God wanted me to read today. I have been filling myself with junk food which I never eat unless I’m hurting. I wanted to make myself feel better as I mourned the last of my loyal and loving dog of 13 years. I need to go to the only One that can soothe my breaking heart and heal me from this loss in my life. The eating doesn’t help I gained weight and even felt worse.
    Just a note that you are not alone even when you don’t hear the phone or txt come in. The one and true love of your life is waiting for you to come and sit at his feet. He will give you all you ever need. He has just the right timing and he will protect you from the wrong choices till the right one comes along. A reminder YOU ARE LOVED by the man who is Love Jesus !! So thanks so much for pointing me back to our saviour who is ready to save I just have to ask. Have a Son-filled day!! Mariellen

    
23 Celeste November 8, 2012 at 10:24 AM

    This was a God-Send. And really, its not about being single or turning to food, though those are valid things. What its really about is being alone and the things we do to soothe ourselves. I’m married but I still face issues with loneliness. Single girls need to know that it doesn’t simply “go away” when you get married. Spend time investing in good friends. I dealt with this just yesterday, I texted 9, nine!, Girl “friends” (acquaintances) and not a single one replied. I felt especially alone yesterday. I did dig into a bag of cheetos but was able to catch myself before it was too late (empty bag). The Lord is truly all we need and though these times are extremely uncomfortable I can only hope he is refining us, instructing us and drawing us ever closer to Himself.

    
24 Keri November 8, 2012 at 10:27 AM

    Umm… today you’re my favorite.

    That’s all.

    

    25 Cara November 8, 2012 at 10:52 AM

        Mine too. Thank you Annie!

        

26 Sue Anderson November 8, 2012 at 10:51 AM

    Had that same situation–waiting for the phone to ring and it didn’t. It still hasn’t. Facing the reality that God really is in control of all things and that’s okay.

    
27 tricia November 8, 2012 at 10:53 AM

    Love that story Annie……..so true, so true………….

    
28 deedee November 8, 2012 at 11:01 AM

    Annie, can relate way too well – chocolate speaks my name in many languages and is creative in enticing me (should I say satan is extremely helpful in enabling chocolate to be creative!). Reality is that I still have the mistaken idea that I can help God help me rather than placing all in HIS hands. Thank you for being so real and sharing and obeying His words placed on your heart. Blessings for this day and warm cookies (for sharing with friends)

    
29 Caroline Carter November 8, 2012 at 11:09 AM

    Loved the Nutella story. I don’t have a cell phone, I don’t text and my phone hardly ever rings. I am not a recluse by any means. I am trying to lead by example so my children don’t remember mommy on the phone all the time. I try to be be available to them in their company. Now they are in kindergarden and first grade so the only noise in my house is from me or the dogs. This is a new season in my journey with the Lord. My spirit tells me to BE STILL and know. I have recently made a decision to personally invite Jesus into my day with me to be that silent friend. I am not lonely or bored but am trying to live in the moment. Not in who is going to call or what I need to do, but to slow down and see what God is trying to teach me. We so want to be busy. It is so against my nature to slow down, but in doing so I am more aware of His presence. Thanks for your words to show we are all in this game of life together.

    
30 Janet November 8, 2012 at 11:19 AM

    As long as I can remember, way back in my childhood years, I’ve turned to food for comfort. My asthma kept me from being able to keep up and play with others, I went for the cookies. I had no friends. I went for the cookies or cake or brownies or whatever was in the house, especially if it had chocolate. Still go that way much more than I care to admit. And I’m not alone, well not physically. Sometimes the song that goes something like “if I have to be lonely, I’d rather be lonely alone” rings in my head, it’s so true. Thank you for your honesty. We keep little to no chocolate in the house so that’s diminished, but the urge hasn’t. I have apologized to God more times than I could ever count for not going to him first. Nice to know through your lovely post and all the comments, I’m not alone. Love you, Annnie.

    
31 Theresa Payne November 8, 2012 at 11:21 AM

    Thank you. Thank you for sharing your heart, your struggles, your truth. Thank you.

    
32 nina ruth November 8, 2012 at 11:39 AM

    Annie, you are terrific! As one Nutella-loving single lady to another, I salute you!

    Thanks for your honesty! It’s refreshing! It’s OK to want to NOT be single! I’ve often asked for prayer for a husband & been SHOCKED at the silly responses of “Just let Jesus be your Husband…” etc. Now, if anyone says that to me, I will kick them in the Nutella, alright!! :-)

    I just went to an AMAZING wedding reception last weekend (no, not two 19 year olds getting married, and yet again, triggering another Nutella binge from me!) & feel free to email me & I’ll share about it…I’ve never been so encouraged in my life!!!

    Keep blogging, Annie!

    
33 marylyn November 8, 2012 at 11:49 AM

    my nutella is ice cream but other than that pretty sure i lived this exact scenario…idk 2 nights ago?
    thank you thank you thank you for sharing honestly in this space. your words are a great blessing & encouragement to me. so so thankful that Jesus can & does speak louder & truer than nutella or mint chocolate chip.

    
34 Amy November 8, 2012 at 11:54 AM

    Wow. This post took me back about 7 years to living in a strange city, hours from family and A.L.O.N.E. I remember one friend started singing “Are You Lonesome Tonight?” when we were in a group just hanging out. It wasn’t pointed at me, but when I responded, “I’m lonesome every night,” she burst into tears. She knew I hated being single and how it would grate on me to attend every wedding, every bridal or baby shower, and she wasn’t trying to make me feel worse. She just didn’t really comprehend what it was like to be alone (she got married at 19) at 30 and my response convicted her at that moment.
    It took me three years of living away from everyone I knew and loved to find myself deep in the layers of the “Amy” I was out in public. And when my knight showed up and thought I was amazing, I thought he was just going to be temporary. I nearly blew him off completely. But he turned out to be the one I had been waiting for. And no, it hasn’t always been roses and rainbows, but even in the struggles of bankruptcy, infertility, miscarriage, and job loss, there is no one I would rather come home to at the end of the day. The wait was long and sometimes heartbreakingly arduous, but God was right in His timing and Daniel was worth it.
    Keep writing with this type of honesty. There are so many out here in the world who are feeling the same way (but may have made the choice of eating the Nutella) and don’t have the same strength to speak about their loneliness. They need to hear your voice amongst the stories from the moms. Thank you for sharing!

    
35 kendal November 8, 2012 at 12:00 PM

    our salves, yes, food, drink, entertainment, people….i am guilty of turning to the immediate instead of the true….great post.

    
36 Amy November 8, 2012 at 12:07 PM

    Love this Annie. So spoke to right where I’m at. Thanks for being real. Such a gift.

    
37 Michele November 8, 2012 at 12:23 PM

    Annie,
    I just have to comment, no matter what we each are experiencing, the verses you have quoted in your blog over these past months, have been on point with me and my struggles. I happened upon your blog via chance and you’ve been such an inspiration and blessing. My parents situation has been full of drama these last 6 months and my mother has been diagnosed with dementia. I have two small children and we are trying to adopt another. That with all the daily duties of kids’ schedules, household management and just making time for my kids on top of driving at least an hour each way to my parents for the uncontrollable pressure cooker which is what my parents house is at times unbearable. Many times have I thought to myself…what is the universe trying to tell me…some friends have said listen to the universe…but I say no. If I had listened to the “universe” i would never have had the family I had today. I constantly pray and ask for guidance, endurance, strength and courage just to get through the day and find myself too looking for a sign of some sort…to let me know that I’m not alone. I don’t feel anything happen to my heart nor do I see any signs….
    ….then I get your email…..and I realize, I’m not alone. Thank you

    
38 Carolyn November 8, 2012 at 12:25 PM

    I hear a plea for honestly identifying feelings in your post. For me, when I try to lie and deny how I am feeling or what I am doing, or to use extreme business or food to cover my pain, I am really just being dishonest. I am letting the world see a me who is not real by hiding my pain. I always think that people will reject me or shun me if they know who I really am. For me, I need to remember that God wants me to share with him and to trust in him and also to trust in his children who are all around me.

    Thanks for the post.

    
39 Shana November 8, 2012 at 12:28 PM

    thank you.

    
40 Holly November 8, 2012 at 12:40 PM

    I feel the same way, Annie. I have my good and bad days, but long to be in a relationship, long to be married. I know I need to stop putting anything before my relationship with God. Thanks for the reminder.

    
41 Jennifer November 8, 2012 at 12:56 PM

    Annie, I still have stopped talking about the impact you made on me at Allume–when you shared your heart around authenticity and going where God wants us to go, and trusting that He will show us how. And here, sister, you bless me so, in your bravery, your vulnerability, and your pointing me to God. Thank you.

    
42 Lexie November 8, 2012 at 12:58 PM

    I love this! Your honesty, vulnerability, your struggling. Thank you for sharing it! It reminded me that when people think I’m crazy because I make a big deal out of something (like, refusing to eat a spoonful of Nutella, because it’s always about more than the Nutella isn’t it?) that I’m not alone! So for that, thank you.

    
43 Tonya November 8, 2012 at 1:06 PM

    This is SO where I have. Been the past week or so. I’m glad I’m not alone. I’m sitting here thinking I need to tell God repeatedly “God, I need you to be bigger than all my temptations to self loathe right now” thanks annie

    

