November 8, 2012
Living Out of Overflow

I cannot give what I do not have.

I do know that is stating the obvious, but sometimes it helps me to frame my world with language so I can make sense of its lessons.

Six years of living without electricity, without running water in the middle of one of the poorest corners of the planet as it fought its way back from decades of war has framed volumes of learning. Watching broken little lives be loved back to life and spill laughter again. Trusting God for our food and clothes and safety and healing and hope and everything else.

I am a born problem-solver, a creative to the core. An out-of-the-box thinker, a paradigm iconoclast. And then I moved to South Sudan.

All my good ideas were still good ideas, but they couldn’t feed a growing family or heal a dying child, let alone help a warring nation. I needed an overflow that came from heaven, not from earth.

I could not give what I did not have.  But Jesus.  Beautiful Jesus.  He came to give us life and life more abundantly.  The lessons mandated by desperation. These burn the deepest.

I can only love out of overflow.  Loving out of obligation never works.  I know.  I have tried. But where God’s Love is miracles always follow.  Why?  Because God IS Love and He is good.  Always good.  Even when we don’t understand.

Now hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us.  Romans 5:5

You could say that is why I wrote this book, penned this invitation.

I need to live with heaven spilling into and through my life. Don’t you?

But what does that look like practically right where I am, where you are?

And the supernatural.  Why would I be interested in that?  Deep breath. I am not talking about Hollywood spookiness or staged showmanship.  I am talking about the raw reality of God’s love making a difference in our world and the ability to walk in close intimate fellowship with Him every single day.

Living supernaturally is simply our birthright in Jesus.  And where I lived in Africa, it was a down-in-the-dirt necessity. {Since moving back to America this fall, I have found it pretty necessary here too.}

The transition has been a bit bumpy in places.  Learning here too friends.  Always learning.  Always going lower.  If I want to know what I am carrying, I have but to look at what I spill out when jarred.

Abundant, joy-filled, wonder-washed, resurrection forever Life only comes from overflow not obligation, from get-to not have-to, from His goodness not His sternness. Only when I live from this overflow do I leak grace and live out His love story etched in my moments and my days.

This book. It is an altar with my story and an invitation laid bare on it.  It would be a joy to share at least part of the journey with you.

Might I encourage you?  Be brave enough to stop.  To seek out selah spots right in the middle of your busy life where you can slow and come to Jesus. {Those quiet moments you can steal away when the kiddos fall asleep in traffic or the rare occasion you are in line alone at the grocery store.}  Lean in then to God’s whispers and draw near to Him.  He longs to speak to you in every setting.

Open wide your heart to His Spirit and the outpouring of His love.  Drink deep.  Splash freely.  Flow over.  Spill life.   You and your world will never be the same.

Pssst… I am so excited!  Today, just for Bloom I am giving away THREE autographed copies of An Invitation to the Supernatural Life.  One of the best ways to grow in receiving more from Jesus is to honor and appreciate what He has already done.  To enter, simply leave a comment below telling us one thing you are grateful God has done for you. As we read these testimonies keep in mind, a testimony is a legal precedent.  It builds our faith and encourages all of us to believe God for the more we are created for.  So let’s get this testimony party started!

Always remember.  You are loved,

Michele, From The Unpaved Road



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS


Teresa S November 8, 2012 at 1:38 AM

    I am grateful for the hardships that the Lord has given us in the past few years. They have increased our faith, our hope, our joy, and have strengthened our family and our marriage. Surrender is sweet. God is so good.

    
2 Charissa Steyn November 8, 2012 at 4:44 AM

    One thing I am grateful for in this season is a happy, healthy, strong little boy!! He is just over 8 weeks old and I’m growing more thankful by the moment! I love your writing and your heart- would be awesome to win a copy of your book!!!

    
3 Beth November 8, 2012 at 5:43 AM

    Michele- I’m midway in my fourth year of service in Port-de-Paix, Haiti. I am continually challenged by the Spirit and am grateful for that. I have really learned about the supernatural Christian life in a way we may not have in the comforts and self-made world that is US. I’ll be reading your book (whether my name is drawn or not). Thanks for speaking to my soul this am.

    
4 Janet November 8, 2012 at 6:39 AM

    Bringing us to a Bible believing church and healing us when we left our church of 39 years because of theology that just did not match up to God’s Word.

    
5 Abigail Snyder November 8, 2012 at 7:37 AM

    I am grateful that God has gifted me with faithful mentors who stand firm on the foundation of Scripture–and who reassure me in my doubt and discouragement, pushing me to faith and waiting on God.

    
6 ro.elliott November 8, 2012 at 8:02 AM

    OH…Jesus comes to set the prisoner free…so thankful for His long suffering, patient love for me…and now in my 50’s I feel more free than ever…
    I loved…loved…”love has a face” and I am looking forward to reading this book too…oh how you stir my spirit…how your writing draws me deeper into a love relationship with Him….blessings and grace to you~

    
7 Patrice November 8, 2012 at 8:12 AM

    Michele- I am looking forward to reading your book. I, too, am a problem solver and I
    Sem to enjoy helping God work out my problems. In the past six months He has really worked with me on this by stripping away the places I now realize I depended on for security more than Him. In the beginning it was a devastating and dark place. Now as He has drawn me closer to Him and dependent on His guidance and closeness it is a beautiful place I never want to leave.

    
8 Liz November 8, 2012 at 8:12 AM

    My decisions as a young 20-something took me to some low places. Now, in my mid-thirties, I recognize and appreciate the well-deserved turmoil I should have experienced and didn’t because of His grace.

    
9 ~VA~ November 8, 2012 at 9:00 AM

    One thing I am grateful for God doing is providing me with the internet this morning. It may seem small, but it helps me so much with my anxiety levels, and this morning he surprised me with access to the internet!

    
10 Amy K-W November 8, 2012 at 9:20 AM

    I am so grateful to God for the amazing husband he has give me. He is a man who lives by his faith, challenges me in my faith, and loves me through it all!

    
11 Libby November 8, 2012 at 9:35 AM

    I am glad now that God jarred me awake 2 years ago to realize I really am free in Christ and accepted. it hurt, and it changed my world. and I am so thankful.

    
12 Brenda Torres November 8, 2012 at 9:42 AM

    I am so grateful that God has given me 2 miracle children.

    
13 AJ November 8, 2012 at 9:55 AM

    He holds my hand every day as I journey down paths I never thought I would take.

    
14 Kathryn Buntyn November 8, 2012 at 10:09 AM

    God has blessed me beyond measure. Even in the difficulties, He shows up, time after time. Now He is shaking up my comfort even more…and I am asking Him what to do with it. I’m grateful He’s opening my eyes to the Gospel lived out. Getting involved in the messiness of others’ lives. Being His hands and feet. I’m not sure where He’s taking me. But I’m excited…and nervous. :) This book looks fabulous!

    
15 Rachel R Adams November 8, 2012 at 10:10 AM

    grateful for His fingerprints on the lives of my children

    
16 DARA GATES November 8, 2012 at 10:16 AM

    God has brought me through some very deep valleys over the last 10 years. Restoration iin him is unparalleled JOY

    
17 Patricia November 8, 2012 at 10:17 AM

    grateful for so much in my life and a place to grow stronger and more in love with Him ~ a move to a small town, where God has placed beautiful people in my path, connecting me to my past and pushing me forward ~ grateful for the move that stripped me of all the comfort and security I had or thought I had, to a life where I am blooming in a way I never thought possible ~~ Michele, I can’t wait to read your book!

    
18 Christine November 8, 2012 at 10:21 AM

    I’m grateful for the people I love and even though things are difficult at times, God is teaching me patience and long suffering.

    
19 Lajoie November 8, 2012 at 10:22 AM

    I’m grateful that in my darkest moments, when I did not “feel” God’s presence, He was still there waiting for me.

    
20 Julie November 8, 2012 at 10:24 AM

    He gave me a job that was great even if it only lasted a short amount of time!

    
21 Jan November 8, 2012 at 10:25 AM

    I am grateful and in awe that God speaks to me. When I slow down and ask and take notice, I see Him, I feel Him, I hear Him. He is good!

    
22 Holly November 8, 2012 at 10:32 AM

    Today and every day I am thankful that God has allowed me and my 2 sisters to take care of my mother who is 92 and has Alzheimer’s. Above all things they have put her first. Daily we try and show her love, understanding, care and patience. It’s hard for sure but I know God has a plan for her. I use to pray daily for him to just take her home so she could live her joyous life but I now pray that he continues to bless us so that we can do for her as she deserves. God blessed her with 14 children and we are here for a reason.

    
23 Nikki Shoemaker November 8, 2012 at 10:35 AM

    So many ways, I can’t choose just one…God has blessed my husband and I with a wonderful marriage, five (soon to be six) children, and somehow, we have stayed afloat financially on just my husband’s salary–even when most people would think it nearly impossible to make it on the amount of $$ on which we have lived at times. We are so grateful for the ways He has worked in our lives, good and bad, to continue shaping us into the people that He wants us to be…and he’s certainly not finished with us yet :)

    
24 Lesley November 8, 2012 at 10:37 AM

    I am thankful for God’s grace. His mercy is new every morning and His blessings too. I need that…everyday.

    
25 Tammy November 8, 2012 at 10:37 AM

    I am grateful that He has blessed me with a husband that strongly desires His will for his life and the life of our family.

    
26 Jules November 8, 2012 at 10:37 AM

    I am grateful that God is my source for everything…. Not my job or lack thereof, not my position or career,content my money talent or skill…. God is my all in all!!!

    
27 Robin November 8, 2012 at 10:40 AM

    I am so grateful because everytime I call him he answers and the more he answers the more readily/immediately I call on him anytime day or night. My relationship with God is like no other relationship. The concerns of the frequency of calling and whether or not it’s too much, overbearing, tiresome, nerve-racking etc. When I call him he answers. For that I am grateful! Forever grateful!!!!

    
28 Cyndy November 8, 2012 at 10:40 AM

    God has blessed me with a husband and with so much more. I have earthly resources and have been learning to separate those blessings from the need to be dependent on God’s grace, Jesus’s love, the Spirit’s guidance .

    
29 Becky J. November 8, 2012 at 10:41 AM

    I am so very thankful for life{what a gift of God’s grace}..when I was 4 I had a severe allergic reaction to my immunizations and spiked a very high fever, convulsed and stopped breathing. We lived rurally and it took 20 minutes to get to the ER. I was blue. The doctor ran out as he saw my mother running in with me in her arms. “You need the coroner”, were his words. I was resuscitated and a brain scan was done-the verdict: severe brain damage. The Lord had been wooing my father to the ministry and Dad had been resisting. In desperation my daddy knelt on the hospital floor next to my metal crib and surrendered ALL. Within hours I began responding and my pediatrician ordered another brain scan- the results: COMPLETELY whole-no damage! My pediatrician’s words -”It’s a miracle!” Yes, God is the loving Giver of life! He has the power to raise the dead! I am living proof! I love You, precious Lord! His name is above every name! He is on the throne of ALL things! I am my Beloved’s and He is mine!

    
30 Rosemary Marren November 8, 2012 at 10:43 AM

    Michele,
    I am so grateful that at the age of 55 I learned that I had a loving heavenly Father that allowed me to call Him ABBA. After growing up in a home without love of any sort ,just obligation from my parents, who told me frequently that I was born to care for them when they were old and my brother was born to keep me “company”, I felt extremely unwanted, unloved, and worthless which has affected my life in heart-breaking ways. My faher was a trained minister and my mother a nurse, IMAGINE! I made decisions searching to be loved and it has hurt me and the children I bore. I came back to the church after 35 years and gave my screwed up life to Christ. Thru Jesus I have learned I AM LOVED, and I now have the Daddy I longed for along with my christian brothers and sisters who love me and show it!! I have never been happier and now have hope for my children also!! Thank you for your work spreading the Word! Rosemary

    
31 Brittany November 8, 2012 at 10:44 AM

    I am grateful God is in my marriage with my husband and I. Thank you for the chance to win

    
32 Dianne - Bunny Trails November 8, 2012 at 10:45 AM

    I am grateful that God keeps us in a place where we have to trust Him for money to pay the bills and whatever else. My husband’s self-employed in a business that’s seasonal. We have no regular paycheck every 2 weeks. No savings. No retirement. Nothing to fall back on as the world would deem necessary. Even when he is working, he isn’t always getting paid right away, but God is absolutely faithful and trustworthy.

    
33 Ellyse November 8, 2012 at 10:46 AM

    I am thankful that my heavenly Father has moved me and my family to the country, for a time of healing. We still face the same challenge of alcoholism, but we are fighting the battle in a beautiful setting. God is providing for all of our needs. I am humbled by His goodness toward us. We serve an awesome God!

    
34 Carissa November 8, 2012 at 10:51 AM

    I am thankful that God never gives up on me! His mercies are new every morning.

    
35 Helen November 8, 2012 at 10:52 AM

    I’m grateful that I still have a yearning for more of God even though I find it so difficult to really do the things I think I should to learn how to discern His voice. I need His Spirit’s power.

    
36 portia bergman November 8, 2012 at 10:52 AM

    In the quaking of the night, in prayers of disparate pleas for patience and unwavering love in difficult times, Our God leads me to a dear, dear friend. I pray for her, her family. As morning wakes and and the gift of this new day opens. My friend calls to me. To me for advice on the very issue I prayed for in the night for myself. God is almighty and knits us together across miles and space, through prayer and thanksgiving. She and I both shared that Love is the prevailing glue that tightly holds our families together and binds our communities. It is in seeing our blessings and gifts that we are filled with His spirit love and overflow to All. I am thankful for reading your post and the affirmation that Love is the true, everlasting treasure! Blessings to all for an amazing day to love and be loved.

    
37 Erin November 8, 2012 at 10:53 AM

    I’m thankful for the cross and the promise that the Lord will “bind our wounds”. I love your words that to receive more of Jesus we need to honor what He has already done. So powerful!

    
38 Doris s. November 8, 2012 at 11:07 AM

    I am thankful for this day,my husband ,and especially for my health. For this time of renewal and want to grow, even if I’m 70! So thankful for modern tech knowledge for bringing me to your spot on in courage ! Thank you for your post ! Your thoughts ! And your book!

    
39 Karen Thompson November 8, 2012 at 11:08 AM

    As person with Aspergers Syndrome my ability to understand love was very clinical, then in 2010, God did a healing and I felt love, understood love and felt emotions more deeply than I had before.
    On one of your visits to Wales(Cardiff /Company burning hearts) I gave you a few packs of paper shapes, and you hugged me with a hug I have never experienced from someone outside my family/ close Brothers and Sisters in Jesus, in quite the same way, and what is more I hugged back. It was special moment for me at the time, because Papa did something more, because you spill love.

    
40 Melinda November 8, 2012 at 11:12 AM

    Grateful that Jesus loves me enough to ensure that He not only forgives me, but that I forgive myself. Pursuant Grace.

    
41 Jen F November 8, 2012 at 11:14 AM

    I am so thankful for His mercies new every morning. Thank you for this beautiful post about the power of God in us which so many of us leave largely untapped. Would love to read your book!

    
42 Laura November 8, 2012 at 11:14 AM

    I am grateful for God’s grace and mercy. I know that I need it often. I am also grateful for the encouragement of others and the ability to also give encouragement. I am grateful for God blessing me and entrusting(sp) me with four precious boys to raise and love. Actually I could keep going because I have a lot to be grateful for.

    
43 Theresa Payne November 8, 2012 at 11:16 AM

    I am grateful for God’s amazing, incredible, unconditional love, patience, and kindness; for the hugs He gives me; and the constant reminders that He is with me – no matter what; no matter if I am where I am at because of poor choices I have made.

    
44 H.G. November 8, 2012 at 11:21 AM

    Oh my goodness, there are so many things I’m thankful for… God’s constantly and continually working in my life and in the lives of the ones around you. All I need to do is pay attention. Recently, God’s been doing some inner work in mine and my husband’s hearts, especially concerning the state of our church family and our country. He’s given us peace and home for the future, rather than despair and discouragement. I praise God for His Son, who died on the cross for my sins, and who lives so I can have eternal life in Him.

    
45 Lindsay November 8, 2012 at 11:29 AM

    I am thankful that God is showing me more and more what Jesus did on the cross. He bore ALL the wrath and now I get ALL the love. How that can transform a life in thankfulness and joy is completely life changing.

    
46 Becky November 8, 2012 at 11:32 AM

    I’m thankful that I woke up this morning to power!

    
47 Leah November 8, 2012 at 11:33 AM

    I’m so thankful I can see God’s hand working in my life. He is closing doors that I needed to shut, and opening doors that I never imagined. He has forever changed me!

    
48 Becky November 8, 2012 at 11:34 AM

    I’m thankful for God’s Word and the strength He gives us.

    
49 Kerry @ Made For Real November 8, 2012 at 11:34 AM

    …that He has drawn me closer to Him through my miscarriages this past year.

    
50 Janet November 8, 2012 at 11:36 AM

    When I met my now husband it seemed purely by chance. I’d never been comfortable with men (abusive childhood) so when just meeting him stirred such strong emotion I was very confused. I learned he was engaged, I bawled, really confused. That ended, I joyfully gave friends permission to give him my number. Neither of us even knew a relationship with Christ was possible. Looking back, we both know He instrumented all these “coincidences” and generated those terrifying feelings. We’ve had our 36th anniversary, 2 adult children and multiple health conditions ourselves. God is truly a miracle worker in this day as much as when He spoke to the prophets and when Jesus walked the earth. Hallelujah!!

    
51 Jeanette Thompson November 8, 2012 at 11:37 AM

    I am thankful that I get to watch the children I work with in Kolkata proudly show me their latest project ’30 day of Counting our Blessings’…they are showing me what it is like to be deeply grateful for the little things!

    
52 Kali November 8, 2012 at 11:38 AM

    So grateful for His healing touch and that my loving Papa is completely Trustworthy.

    
53 Tonya Overstreet November 8, 2012 at 11:42 AM

    I am grateful that God gives me second chances…and third and fourth and so on. He’s always there even when I’m not.

    
54 elizabeth November 8, 2012 at 11:45 AM

    i’m grateful for….sunshine and blue skies, fresh autumn breezes, time to spend reading, thinking, reflecting, and praying.

    
55 DeAnn Miller November 8, 2012 at 11:47 AM

    So many times in this last year my fiance and I have given so much of our time, money and love to family members. We ended up with much grief and debt in return from them. It hurts but it doesn’t matter in the big picture because God was our witness and knows what we gave. His abundance shows because we have been able to pick up and carry on, he has given us friends and angels to be there to hold us up and each other to lean on and love. I feel Him close, my friend and strength without my faith I would be lost. I thank Him for every day and I can still give to others no matter what I get in return because I know my reward is with Him and far above any earthly pleasure.

    
56 Brittany Judy November 8, 2012 at 11:49 AM

    I am grateful that He hasn’t given up on me regardless of the sinful life I have led in the past few years.

    
57 Lisa November 8, 2012 at 11:53 AM

    Look how happy they are! You are doing such a good thing.

    
58 kathy w November 8, 2012 at 11:55 AM

    I am thankful for my husband, I can’t imagine getting through the bad times without him.

    
59 Kathy N November 8, 2012 at 12:00 PM

    I read 1,000 Gifts about two years ago and began the discipline of thanksgiving, which really just turns life into a treasure hunt! What I hadn’t realized was how this practice was charging up my “joy battery” so that when my father and my father-in-law went Home, I was able to walk through these experiences with hope. My mother is now in Hospice care with cancer at age 90, and I am walking with her. This one is harder, so I have two accountability partners with which I exchange “gift lists” daily of God’s blessings. Most recently I was able to thank Him FOR a new lump we discovered, because I love her enough that I don’t want her to linger and suffer for my sake. I have never been so aware of God’s presence moment by moment, and hearing how others are blessed/gifted expands my own joy because I can see God at work beyond my own very small (for now) horizons!

    
60 Kristyn Mogler November 8, 2012 at 12:00 PM

    I am so thankful for the Lord’s faithfulness and guidance! His grace never ceases to amaze me. I never would have thought that I would marry a man from Germany and move overseas to help care for his family in the midst of their health problems, but that’s exactly where we are and I’m loving the exciting journey of obedience! I’m thankful that our Father in Heaven knows our hearts better than we do ourselves, and that He plants His desires in us so He can fulfill them!

    
61 Sylvia Belcher November 8, 2012 at 12:02 PM

    My thanksgiving echoes so many of the others’ comments.
    Soooo thankful that the Lord has never given up on me.
    I feel unworthy at times, but I know that the enemy of my soul
    is the discourager and the father of lies. Christ, my Lord and Savior
    made me worthy when He shed His precious blood for me on Calvary’s
    tree. Thank you for sharing with us so poignantly about your
    journey and the beautiful, unending ways the God of this universe
    weaves a magnificent tapestry for the whole world to see.

    Many blessings, Sylvia

    
62 Anna D. November 8, 2012 at 12:04 PM

    I’m grateful that even when my world seems to be falling apart, He is holding it all together .

    Selah
    Pause, ponder, reflect, selah.
    Be still and know that He is God.
    Admist chaos, tumbling, crumbling, selah.
    Remember in the storms of life to simply selah.
    These are the moments we need to pause and reflect the most.
    R eflect on God and pause in His mighty presence. Selah.
    When the wait has you weary, don’t lose heart, take a moment and selah.
    R est in His Grace, simply selah. Pause and ponder His great Love.

    Selah.

    By Anna Dickinson

    
63 Carrie K November 8, 2012 at 12:08 PM

    im grateful to still be standing today as i walk through something difficult

    
64 Jeanne Carter November 8, 2012 at 12:10 PM

    I am so grateful that God is teaching me (it’s a process, right?) to get out of my own way and help others learn God’s truth about forgiveness and live with joy.

    
65 Carol November 8, 2012 at 12:12 PM

    I am thankful for healing of relationships around my mother-in-law’s hospital bed when she was reaching for Jesus and telling me she is going to “Meet her maker”. In times of crisis priorities become more clear and forgiveness is easier. Thank you Lord for mending broken fences and healing old wounds!
    Carol

    
66 Olivia November 8, 2012 at 12:15 PM

    I’m so grateful that God has changed my heart and renewed my love for my husband after some deep hurts and his falling away from faith. I didn’t think it was possible. It isn’t – humanly, But God did it anyway! I love Him. And I am in love with my husband!

    
67 Michele@From the Unpaved Road November 8, 2012 at 12:17 PM

    A response to all the precious responses thus far… I am so grateful for all your beautiful hearts and the comments that celebrate His Life! Let’s keep the celebration going. Thank YOU for the gift of sharing your stories… I am so humbled and blessed…. SO humbled and blessed. {Psssst. If I get picked for the drawing, you can pick again. I already have several copies with more on the way… not to mention manuscript versions… LOL)

    
68 Anne A November 8, 2012 at 12:18 PM

    I’m thankful for challenges bigger than I am that force me to lean on Jesus. I’m thankful for His mercies renewed every morning. I’m thankful for a man committed to praying with me morning & evening. I’m thankful for freedom to sing, pray & worship openly.

    
69 Teresa Ahrenholtz November 8, 2012 at 12:24 PM

    I am ALWAYS grateful that He saved me from myself and has given me a life of joy, peace, and security.

    
70 Holly November 8, 2012 at 12:24 PM

    I am grateful that God is bigger than anything I can come up against, and that He knows my heart, even when I can’t put into words what I might be going through or feeling.

    
71 Teresa November 8, 2012 at 12:25 PM

    I am so thankful for the blessing of eyesight. Since I was 24, I have been legally blind in one eye. It is only through God’s grace that I continued to function with the eyesight I am left with. I am amazed and so grateful to be able to see my children’s faces and the splendor of a sunrise.God is good!

    
72 Valerie R November 8, 2012 at 12:30 PM

    Impossible to name just one, but I choose NEW LIFE! He died that I might live in Him, then 10 years ago He brought me through non-Hodgkins lymphoma and a difficult divorce, and gave me a new life with a wonderful, godly husband. I am so thankful for each shining moment He gifts me with. This supernatural life I live is only because of Jesus.

    
73 Corinne Wijsman November 8, 2012 at 12:31 PM

    I think the thing I see is God’s utter faithfulness in seeing me through every time. I don’t know how He does it, but He is really really steadfast in His love.

    
74 Dittie November 8, 2012 at 12:34 PM

    I am so grateful today, the Lord helped me extremely when I lay in the dentistchair! It’s great, without fear and relaxed. Wow, we have prayed for and yes He was there!!!!!

    
75 Elizabeth November 8, 2012 at 12:40 PM

    I am so thankful for His grace and mercy!

    
76 Hope November 8, 2012 at 12:44 PM

    I would love the book. I’m really seeking more gratitude in my life and for the Lord. I am really grateful for my friends and The Purpose Driven Life book which led me to Christ! Oh so grateful!

    
77 Vanessa November 8, 2012 at 12:49 PM

    I am thankful for my awesome family. I have three younger siblings and we are all “grown up” now but because I am so proud of each of them, I talk about them all the time. Then often people will comment on how close I am to my siblings and how that contrasts with their experience. And I am very thankful for my siblings and my parents who taught us that this was possible.

    
78 Shellie November 8, 2012 at 12:52 PM

    I am extremely grateful to God that he was even willing to give me the very undeserved free gift of salvation. I am also thankful that he promised that I would never be alone.

    
79 Rycki November 8, 2012 at 12:54 PM

    I am greatful that God is always there for me. He loves like no other. Blesses abundantly.. one of my most precious gift is my grandchildren and the Lord providing time to spend with them daily watching them grow, especially spiritualy

    
80 Jennifer November 8, 2012 at 1:08 PM

    Michele, The Father has rocked my world, rewriting the story of a once teenage girl who sat underneath a tree and decided her life, her pride, was more important than anything–even the life of un unborn baby. It takes my breath away, the truth that this love, so undeserved, comes rushing into me, forgiving me, cleansing me, restoring me to Him and making me new.

    I am just loving your amazing book, friend. Your words resonate with me, my soul responding ‘yes’ to His truth you share on each page. So very grateful for you.

    
81 Jennifer November 8, 2012 at 1:09 PM

    I am grateful for where I am today,
    God did not leave me where I was yesterday….or last year.
    But His love changes me day by day as I yield myself up
    to Him

    
82 Stacy G November 8, 2012 at 1:15 PM

    God opened my husbands heart and my heart to become foster parents. He brought us a 19 day old little boy who is now 10 months old. We don’t know what the little mans future is but we are thankful that God allows us to have as long as we have him

    
83 Bekah November 8, 2012 at 1:27 PM

    I am grateful God helped me pass out of some of my grad school classes this week. He helped me apply knowledge I learned in my undergrad and save the time and money for graduate school. What a gift! He is good!

    
84 Keri November 8, 2012 at 1:28 PM

    I am thankful for the timing of your message — spilling out grace instead of duty has been hard for me lately. I want to be more “get to” than “have to.” God has the best timing!

    
85 Maria G. November 8, 2012 at 1:31 PM

    I am thankful for relationships with my children and watching them grow in the Lord. What a blessing!

    
86 Rin November 8, 2012 at 1:32 PM

    Grateful for the opportunity to serve (currently) 7 babies in South America.

    
87 Michelle November 8, 2012 at 1:33 PM

    My Jesus has totally healed me of all mental illness (something that has plagued us for generations) I am forever His, eternally grateful.

    



