November 7, 2012
Counting Down to Christmas

It’s hard to believe that Christmas is just a month and half away. I have always been one of those people who has counted down to things, so it comes as no surprise that as a child I loved Advent calendars.

My mom would always buy my sister and me one of those simple paper advent calendars – you know the kind – where the little squares open like windows to show little pictures. We would take turns opening the windows and get so excited about what would appear.

I remember one year the calendar was an empty stable and as we opened the windows over the course of December the nativity came to life.

My sister and I would jump out of bed every morning to see who would show up next.

A shepherd!
An angel!
The mommy, Mary!
BABY JESUS!

Now a mom myself, I understand why my mom bought us an advent calendar every year. That simple cardboard calendar was a way for us to comprehend the meaning of Christmas.

This year I’m looking forward to using our new felt advent calendar each morning because its a tangible way to talk about the Christmas story– a literal reminder of love (a heart) coming down (the banner) – just like Jesus came down to Earth.

At dinner each night, as we break bread together, we’ll read from our advent tabletop devotional. I believe that the Holy Spirit will use the Scripture, promises of God and questions to minister to our family’s hearts – even my little ones, whose hearts are hungry for learning and truth.

The Christmas season is busy, but that doesn’t mean it can’t be meaningful. My prayer is that each of us will deepen our understanding of love coming down.

By: Jessica Turner, The Mom Creative

 

This month, find this Tabletop Advent Calendar (pictured above) for only $5.99– no coupon needed!


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Lisa November 7, 2012 at 4:42 PM

    I love the idea of an advent devotional. I created my own many years ago. Each day has a hymn, scripture and Christmas story associated with it. This has been an awesome family tradition.



