The End of Smoke-and-Mirrors Politics?
David Berreby on November 7, 2012, 6:43 PM

Who won big in last night's election? Data. Cold, hard data and the analytical tools to interpret it. The Obama campaign won by leveraging unbelievably detailed information about voters, as Michael Scherer describes today. And those observers who did best at predicting what voters would do (like Nate Silver, who at this writing seems to have gotten the electoral spread exactly right) succeeded the same way—by ignoring all the conventional sources of wisdom and insight and looking at the numbers. This marks, I think, a big and probably permanent shift in the way Americans see politics.

Until now, American electoral campaigns have been run more on hunches and wishful thinking than on detailed information. And people who made their living by politics, or by explaining politics—politicians and ex-pols, campaign professionals, journalists and other chatterers—could say whatever the hell they wanted. They could write mythopoeic hokum like this, or pseudo-numerical prognostications based on their decades-old personal experience, like this. They could engage in wishful thinking ("the crowds are so big!") or just change the data until it was more congenial.

The discrediting of this kind of hooey this year is a one-day story. But the source of that discrediting is a long-term big deal. The notion that political analysis should depend on data has raised the bar. Those who use cargo-cult reasoning ("Republicans haven't won since 1972 unless there was a Bush on the ticket") or unprovable bromides ("the American people seem to want divided government") are going to look less and less respectable. From now on, I suspect, pundits will have to back up their claims with actual information derived from actual voters. (Which among other things means, as Bob Wright astutely observed the other day, that we'll be paying more attention to data-gathering methods—to poll quality as well as poll results.) Nor will it be permissible any more to say, well, because I don't know anything, nobody knows anything. The reply will be, well, there is data out there, why can't you make sense of it?

Future campaigns will drive the change, I expect. Scherer's fascinating piece describes how the Obama campaign (which actually had a guy with the title "chief scientist" overseeing data operations) created a tremendous resource this cycle—a single massive database with information from "pollsters, fundraisers, field workers and consumer databases as well as social-media and mobile contacts." Want to know why the Obama campaign sent you those emails with contests for a dinner with the President? Because tests showed people liked them. Why was George Clooney included in one? Because West Coast women ages 40 to 49 really responded to anything involving Clooney.
