November 01, 2012
Outlaw the phrase "Social Media" at work

When I speak with executives around the world about social media and business, many think of their kids' (or grandkids') Facebook or the Twitter silliness they hear about on television.

Frequently, executives come to the conclusion that social media are frivolous at best and a dangerous time-waster at worst. Once they have that in their mind, it is tough to convince them otherwise.

It's not social media. It's real-time media.

In order to scale social, I recommend that we stop using the word "social" and instead substitute "real-time".

When I ask to the same executives about "real-time communications with customers" they lean forward and want to know more. These are the same people who dismiss Twitter.

When I talk about "real-time media" they understand that it is important for their business.

What are people doing on your site right now? Has someone just praised you on Facebook? Panned you on Twitter? Published a how-to video about your product on YouTube? Is there a mainstream media report out about your company?

Executives understand real-time media and are eager to implement the ideas.

If you're having trouble convincing the bosses about the value of social media as communications tools, why not try my semantics trick and discuss real-time media instead? Let me know how it goes.

What say you?

!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Hi David - I definitely support this! I've used "new relationship marketing" in the past as well.

The only downside is possibly further confusing executives that might have already heard about the buzz around social.

Let me know how it goes!

Posted by: EricTTung | November 01, 2012 at 03:22 PM
David Meerman Scott

Eric, cool. I think getting away from "social" is the key so your phrase is probably a good step.

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | November 01, 2012 at 03:25 PM
Tom Borgman

David, you are saying what I've been thinking...and much of that is based on the fodder you've provided over the past few months. I have experienced the glazed-eye syndrome often the past few years myself. I relis being able to dovetail on this new term and hope it takes hold -especially in the B2Bsphere. As I think you'd agree and have pointed out, it IS real-time "media," which has its own set of features/positives/pitfalls (per your previous post). But it can also be real-time "communications/feedback" which can be leveraged for entirely different reasons/outcomes. Just want to say, thanks for leading the charge.

Posted by: Tom Borgman | November 01, 2012 at 09:08 PM
SavvyInc

I like it. I've used earned, paid and owned media, which includes "shared media." Real-time media also let's those CEOs know they're going to have to give up some control and not insist on approving every statement if you're going to respond effectively.

Posted by: SavvyInc | November 01, 2012 at 09:55 PM
Bob Zagami

Couldn't agree more David. And the events of the past week prove your point. We all lived with "real-time media' through the advanced warnings of the power and scope of Sandy, then experienced unprecedented activity during the storm, and it is how most people communicated after the devastation impacted millions. There was nothing "social" about it, it was "real-time", and real tragic. Our thoughts and prayers are with those affected by the worst storm in our lifetime in NJ and NY.

Posted by: Bob Zagami | November 02, 2012 at 04:42 AM
Nat Coalson

I disagree. Calling it something else belittles the significance and uniqueness of the communication.

The power of social media is just that - it's news directly from your peers. Getting information from your friends, family and colleagues is what social media is all about.

By contrast, "real-time media" could just as easily come from a major news outlet.

And although effective social media can be real-time, the social conversation is important, too.

I believe the most important characteristic of social media vs. mainstream media is that you're getting the story from someone you [presumably] know and trust.

Of course mainstream [corporate] broadcasters use social media too, in which case, maybe calling it something else makes sense.

Ultimately, it's clear that these radical changes in the way we do things requires a new lexicon ... and the conversation is important.

Thanks for all you do, David!

Posted by: Nat Coalson | November 02, 2012 at 04:45 AM
David Meerman Scott

Thanks all for jumping in here. I wrote the post from the perspective of having communicated with hundreds of people who say they cannot implement the ideas of instant communications at work. There are still many, many companies that forbid Facebook and Twitter at work. I've found that using the term "real time media" changes the discussion with the bosses immensely.

Nat - the line between mainstream media and social media is blurring. Mainstream media stories are shared via social media. People can comment on mainstream media stories. They can like them and tweet them. I occasionally write for Huffington Post. Technically it is a blog so technically HuffPo is social media. Yet HuffPp is one of the most popular media outlets in the world.

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | November 02, 2012 at 05:02 AM
kenny

David, i like this a lot. I did a little experiment about 12 months ago using real time as opposed to social to introduce the idea to tech nology brands they could engage. interact real time inside our social network for technology buyers. It moved a lot of conversations from " How many whiotepaper downloads can i get " names and addresses" to ahhh I see we engage them on their terms , on their turf and in real time.

It worked. The tech brand instead of cold calling 1,000's of times a day can congruently engage with an it BUYER REAL TIME at the eaxt point of a problem, need , question, discussion etc, etc etc.

Posted by: kenny | November 02, 2012 at 09:10 AM
Jari Juslén

David - ha ha, you've just created a USP for selling social media to management! It really highlights the importance of a position: if you say the wrong words, nobody's paying attention. If you say the right thing, you get a crowd. Always your fan, Jari

Posted by: Jari Juslén | November 02, 2012 at 10:21 AM
SMSJOE

I like the post and the discussion, thought provoking. I am in favor of real-time as a great way to talk about media. For similar reasons I now use Social business as the description of focusing on the consumer first and adapting the organizational culture to deliver the appropriate customer experience.

I think these changes in terminology helps to direct the focus away from tactics and back to strategy. Well said David thanks for this.

Posted by: SMSJOE | November 02, 2012 at 10:25 AM
David Meerman Scott

Thanks for the comments. Please circle back and let us know if you're tried this with the executives in your company.

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | November 02, 2012 at 10:42 AM
Karyn Cooks

You hit the social nail on the head. Social Business has worked for me because it implies actual framework and process, something that's easily understood within existing frameworks and provides a comfort level that its not all about food and kitty posts -- unless of course you're in the business of food or pets. :) @karyncooks

Posted by: Karyn Cooks | November 02, 2012 at 12:24 PM
Danmoyle

This is a great outlook on the changing landscape of media. I cringe at the term social media, while at the same time using it in so many ways. Fortunately for me personally, I do not have to justify my existence to the C-level at my employer. However, using real-time media as a term to other marketers may help reduce the smirks and eye-glazing. Thanks for the ammo David.

Posted by: Danmoyle | November 02, 2012 at 01:34 PM
Jennifer G. Hanford

What great points you've made. Indeed, "real time media" sounds a lot more savvy to people at the C-Level, especially those who haven't jumped on the "social media" bandwagon yet. Everyone is interested in current events. I tend to catch breaking news via FB and Twitter these days, sometimes before the news websites report it. Can't wait to use this, David!

Posted by: Jennifer G. Hanford | November 02, 2012 at 02:10 PM
Ramon

In Italy the problem don't exist, because a lot of companies haven't an executive working on this matter.
So, social media or real-time media, it's the same :-D

In these last months, I'm educating entrepreneurs (I choose to work with little-mid company) about the web (with an handly and simply way, talking and making example, like in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5g9RiheRzOM&feature=plcp , the title is:"Why my company should be on the web?), trying to make them able to see this BIG opportunity, that could give an help, impossibile today with other traditional tools. (your books helps me a lot).
Thanks and have a good day.

Posted by: Ramon | November 03, 2012 at 06:11 AM
Nick Simard

Social media ohh sorry real time media. I believe it to be the most integral part for small businesses. AS it is important to communicate and solve customer queries. Satisfied customer leads to high brand image and high sales.

Posted by: Nick Simard | November 04, 2012 at 03:08 AM
Sabrina L. Williams

Excellent phrasing that enhances the benefits of this communications and marketing method to potential clients who may still doubt its purpose and effectiveness. Something I will definitely have to remember to use.

Posted by: Sabrina L. Williams | November 04, 2012 at 04:48 PM
MichaelMCCarter

A brilliant distinction David. I agree that 'social' downplays it's 'business' relevance to the uninitiated. 'Real-time media' emphasises an important aspect. Love it. Another angle: What about simply, "New media"? Not a new term, I know (people used to use that to refer to the web), but I think it gets across a similar distinction?

Posted by: MichaelMCCarter | November 04, 2012 at 10:46 PM
Anton Koekemoer

Hi David,

Great post – Especially agree with the insight’s you’ve shared in the post – As social media is not a one way channel, and offer the opportunity of real time engagement and marketing exposure. Any Business using social media as a “traditional” channel should definitely re-evaluate their strategy as to make it more real-time focused and in return reap the benefits that social (real-time) media communication has to offer. Bringing the real time aspects in with social media is definitely the way to go, especially if the Exec’s don’t see the true value of social and real time marketing and communication.

Posted by: Anton Koekemoer | November 05, 2012 at 02:31 AM
ios developers

I prefer real-time. It accurately conveys the power of the media--you don't own it and you have to keep up or die. Social doesn't begin to describe the time pressure (and opportunity) it presents to marketers and brands.

Posted by: ios developers | November 07, 2012 at 05:24 AM

