September 21, 2012
Twitter launches header photos. Time to add yours.

This week Twitter launched an important new feature: the ability to add a header photo to your profile.

As usual, HubSpot was on top of the news in real-time and quickly wrote this "how to" post: Twitter Rolls Out Cover Photos: How to Add Yours Today.

I conferred with my go-to designer Doug Eymer on what I could do with mine and updated my @dmscott Twitter profile page in just a few minutes.

Facebook has had a feature like this for some time, so the concept is not new. But I'm surprised at how few people use it.

A header photo is a great way to show your personal brand.

Don't try to sell

I suspect many sales & marketing types will add an advertising message to this real estate. I'd recommend resisting this tendency. Adding your messages or heavy-handed branding to the header, in my opinion, detracts. Sure, I could have used an image of, say, all my book covers for my cover. Instead I chose an image I really like of me speaking at the NAMM conference earlier this year shot by Jay Blakesberg earlier this year.

Your header photo will show up on your Twitter web page as well as on mobile devices. On my iPhone, it looks fantastic, greatly adding to my personal branding.

Time to add your header photo, don't you think?

If you're inclined, please leave a comment with a link to yours so we can see some examples. 


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




I decided to have some fun with mine: https://twitter.com/ArtilleryMarket

Posted by: ArtilleryMarket | September 21, 2012 at 07:14 AM
Mark Bower (CubeSocial)

We decided to create an atmosphere of blissful serenity: http://twitter.com/cubesocial

Posted by: Mark Bower (CubeSocial) | September 21, 2012 at 09:09 AM
David Meerman Scott

Artillery and Mark - Thanks for sharing - two excellent headers!

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | September 21, 2012 at 02:18 PM
Grantcrowell

Thanks for sharing this feature along with your own helpful tips, David! I also recommend darkening the area around your picture where the text will appear so that it stands out better. You can see an example of this on my own profile at http://twitter.com/grantcrowell

Posted by: Grantcrowell | September 21, 2012 at 06:26 PM
David Meerman Scott

Looking good Grant

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | September 22, 2012 at 06:03 AM
JosephDKelly

Thanks for this post David... There has been as much hype about this. https://twitter.com/JosephDKelly

It was quite hard to choose a header. However, I think I have been able to highlight an active brand and personality in one.

Posted by: JosephDKelly | September 22, 2012 at 12:44 PM
Dat

awesome. i've seen a couple of twitter header providers pop up. like http://www.twitter-header-photo.com

Posted by: Dat | September 22, 2012 at 01:02 PM
Trevor Young

Hi David - here are a few Aussie examples I gathered: http://bit.ly/ODXffr

I must admit, I had a bit of fun playing around with it, although it would be nice to be able to move the avatar to either side of the header image.

Posted by: Trevor Young | September 23, 2012 at 04:28 AM
David Meerman Scott

Joseph - interesting one. The two people are conversing but in their own kayaks. Sort of a metaphor for social media.

Hey Trevor - You are so right that the avatar being in the middle like that limits options. I had to find an image of me speaking where I am to the side. It would be cool if you could move it.

Additionally, it would be good to have the text colors within the photo (for the bio) be changeable so you could use an image with a white background.

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | September 23, 2012 at 10:57 AM
Lyndie Blevins

Thanks for the information and nudge. I wondered about them. Here is mine https://twitter.com/lyndieb

Posted by: Lyndie Blevins | September 23, 2012 at 01:31 PM
Miguel

Awesome, really nice info.

Posted by: Miguel | September 24, 2012 at 09:16 AM
Rusty Cawley, APR

Sorry, but Twitter is beginning to resemble Asimov's Bicentennial Man. At what point is Twitter no longer Twitter, but just another web site?

Posted by: Rusty Cawley, APR | September 25, 2012 at 09:16 PM
David Meerman Scott

Rusty - My sense is that the various social platforms are spending too much time worried about the "competition" and not enough time worrying about their users. Twitter cares about Facebook and wants to match them.

We see this behavior with Apple dropping Google maps for their own crappy platform.

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | September 26, 2012 at 05:19 AM
Paul Stallard

Thanks for the heads up David. Now I just need to find a half decent picture to use.

Posted by: Paul Stallard | September 26, 2012 at 11:16 AM
Julie Musial

What's your thought on adding a background design directing tweeters to your freemium on the web?
www.twitter.com/musialmarketing

Posted by: Julie Musial | October 01, 2012 at 09:42 AM
David Meerman Scott

Julie - I am personally not a fan of such backgrounds. I know many people do it and that's fine. But to me (just a personal opinion) it seems too much like advertising before you get to know someone. Either way, keep tweeting

Posted by: David Meerman Scott | October 01, 2012 at 12:12 PM
Eric

Hi David, always great to read and learn from you! Over the past few years I have read many a marketing book, but nothing caught the essence of what really needs to be happening like "The New Rules"! So, anyway, we have several examples at http://BloomMobile.net - but here's a landing page for a little "Ski Life" platform project we're rolling out. http://m.theskilife.com hope you and the readers enjoy the variety of mobile sites! All the best, Eric

Posted by: Eric | October 06, 2012 at 02:30 AM
Chris

It's probably a sad truth that, as much as we dislike blatant advertising - it always wins in the long run. Perhaps something to be said about human psychology - we often dont want something until its placed in front of us. You can slap an "i" in front of any electronic device today and people will buy it over a competitor simply because it runs on an iOS platform. No matter how many commercials Apple makes claiming to care about its users, their dropping of Google Maps and other competitive actions make sit ring hollow - but people will buy anyway.

Posted by: Chris | October 10, 2012 at 12:57 PM

