November 9, 2012
How Terrorist Groups Disband

Interesting research from RAND:

    Abstract: How do terrorist groups end? The evidence since 1968 indicates that terrorist groups rarely cease to exist as a result of winning or losing a military campaign. Rather, most groups end because of operations carried out by local police or intelligence agencies or because they join the political process. This suggests that the United States should pursue a counterterrorism strategy against al Qa'ida that emphasizes policing and intelligence gathering rather than a "war on terrorism" approach that relies heavily on military force. 

This, of course, should surprise no one. Remember the work of Max Abrahms.


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





Negative, liberal. Stay The Course because you are either With Us or Against US! What sort of 'nuanced' thinking is this? Karl, help me out here....

Posted by: Riccardo Cabeza at November 9, 2012 7:49 AM

...or you could look at the US Counterinsurgency Field Manual (http://www.amazon.com/Marine-Corps-Counterinsurgency-Field-Manual/dp/0226841510), and see that the "less war is better"/"counterinsurgency is counter-intuitive" idea is not entirely new. But its good to see a systematic study, and I hope the new lessons make their way into current operations. (yes, I know counterinsurgency is not identical to counter-terrorism). Thanks for finding the article!

Posted by: Jeff at November 9, 2012 8:01 AM

The idea that drone attacks in Pakistan, murdering hundreds of civillians, are counterproductive to fighting terrorism has already been somehow present in my mind.

Posted by: ChristianO at November 9, 2012 8:28 AM

So pretty much the advantages of proactive security over reactive security.

Kind of old news around here, isn't it?

Posted by: B. Johnson at November 9, 2012 9:56 AM

But many defunct terrorist groups existed in countries with a rule of law, not in civil disorder. It's natural that such organizations would be defeated by law enforcement, not by the military.

On the other hand, in Iraq or Sri Lanka or Afghanistan, actual warfare was or is going on. You can't expect police methods to work against a company of soldiers armed with assault rifles and RPGs.

So obviously the kind of terrorist organization is significant, as is their location and situation, and so the study's generalization may be rather pointless.

The term "terrorist" is a bad one because it's far too broad: it includes criminal organizations that violate the law in their own countries, military groups that use guerrilla tactics (aka "freedom fighters" depending on which side you're on), and even groups that have the support of their home base governments.

Posted by: Miramon at November 9, 2012 10:12 AM

Do you think the military leaders do not already know this? Furthermore, do you think this is not how the battles on the ground are fought?

Eliminating terrorists is the goal, but given a choice of "make lots of money" (e.g. big spending on fancy new weapons, and lots of them) and "don't make lots of money" (working with local police and political leaders)... which do you expect our politicians to choose?

What would be nice is if our leaders would be more transparent on what they're doing, so the public can be more educated on the matter. Democracy doesn't work very well if votes are not informed on the issues.

Posted by: Adam at November 9, 2012 10:36 AM

Military Industrial Complex

Posted by: Johnston at November 9, 2012 11:21 AM
