Thursday, November 08, 2012
n'importe quoi: When Jean-Marc broke up with me

I yearned for a French life, but blew my chances the first time around! Read on (and see you in one week, after la croisière fluviale!)

n'importe quoi (nem port kwah)

    : nonsense; anything at all; "whatever", "yeah, right!"

Provence Villa Rental Luberon luxury home; 4 bedrooms, 5 baths; gourmet kitchen, covered terrace & pool. Views of Roussillon. Click here
..... 

Audio File: Download MP3 or Download WAV

Dire que les Français ne sont pas accueillants aux Anglophones, c'est dire n'importe quoi! To say that the French are not welcoming to Anglophones, is nonsense. 

A Day in a French Life... by Kristin Espinasse

  "Girl Friday"

In 1993 I found myself back in the Arizona desert, having been deported there by one disillusioned Frenchman. Jean-Marc and I had tried to live together—lasting a full ten months—but all that sizzling chemistry that fueled us in the beginning eventually fizzled out, and our Franco-American romance was over. Jean-Marc's mind was set. To prove it, he bought me a one-way ticket back to Phoenix!

Back in Phoenix, I busied myself picking up the pieces of a life I had quickly left behind. The cold, current reality was I needed to find a job, illico! But what was I qualified for? I had a French degree... but no skills!

I didn't want to go back to being a receptionist, and I hated working at the department store... though I loved my customers, who bought both girdles and g-strings from me (I wasn't personally familiar with either culotte before going to work at Dillard's lingerie department). My customers taught me so much and, just before leaving my summer job--to begin my semester in France!--I received a touching letter of recommendation from the most excentric, glamorous, and mysterious of my clients (see the "complicité" chapter--you can read it for free by doing a search inside feature, here).

No, I didn't want to go back to those jobs. Come to think of it, if I could somehow side-step the employer thing altogether... that would be ideal!

I wanted more than anything to avoid a train-train or run-of-the-mill existence—especially in regards to employment, which represents the largest part of one's waking hours.

Self-employment, then, became my goal. Yes! Only by working for oneself could one experience freedom! Only by being one's own boss could one work creatively! Only by calling all the shots could one, say, skip out early for a double matinee, large popcorn with extra butter, and a coke.

Suddenly, I had an inspiration...

I could be a "girl Friday". Better yet, I would be my own girl Friday!

A girl Friday got to do a lot of things. No two days the same! Variety would be the spice of this new (if newly failed...) life. 

I had a car, which was about all I needed, along with the adrenaline of a fresh warrior! Now all I had to do was to decide what I had to offer: what to put on my Girl Friday menu?  Just what, after all, was I capable of? So far I had been good at failing a relationship, but nevermind... time to pull up those bootstraps (even if the heartstrings needed a good tug, too!).

Let's see, what were my skills?...

I could help type up papers
I could clear out one's clutter room
I was good at washing cars
I might walk someone's dog?
I could run errands... 
And I sure knew how to apply make-up! (Perhaps offer makeovers???)

....Not to forget that I had a knack for complaining—I had been good enough at it to "win" a one-way ticket out of France!—so perhaps I could offer to "argue one's case" somehow—that is, without having to go to law school. No time for that. I needed to earn some cash!). 

I might not be skilled or trained in any one area, I thought to myself, I might have even neglected these chores in my very own home, but no looking back now!, there were many things I could do! and, in the doing of them, I might just forget, petit à petit, all that I had left behind in France. I might even forget him. (Would Jean-Marc ever give me a second chance?)

Bon. Never mind. I was set! All I needed was a name for my company" (My very own company!!!) But what to call it? It should be something French, non? Never mind my French dream had come to end, all too suddenly.... 

Because, as Girl Friday, I would be proposing to carry out a variety of jobs, it occurred to me to call my new enterprise "Anything At All". Better yet, why not be fancy—and use the French equivalent! But just what was the equivalent? Would "Anything at All" translate to "N'importe Quoi"? I'd heard the term somewhere before.

N'importe Quoi seemed to mean something along the lines of "You Name It!" (perfect for a service-oriented company, non?), but I still had vague doubts about the actual  translation. What's more, was it prudent for a 24-year-old woman to offer "Anything At All"? Even in English the meaning might be misconstrued....

Despite any doubts, I thought to go ahead with my business-cards order. I could just see the finished product! The card would read, in bold print, "N'importe Quoi!" and there, to the lower right, my name: "Kristi Ingham" with the title "Your Girl Friday". 

What my business card might have looked like... Yikes!

***
Some girl Friday! I never even got around to my first errand: visiting the printer. Instead, I took the first paycheck job I could get, and spent my run-of-the-mill existence in a quiet airpark office, nursing a broken heart. 

It would take another decade or so (a move back to France—which would come sooner than expected, and the foundation of a French family) before I would fully grasp the meaning behind "N'importe Quoi".

Today I sit here at my desk, a self-employed writer, and shake my head sympathetically at the would-be Girl Friday of two decades ago. What a mistake that would have been to call one's company "A Bunch of Baloney" or "Rubbish!" (I cringed when I finally realized the exact translation of my would-be company's name!).

And what folly that would have been, for that failed girlfriend, or girl Friday, to have offered "anything at all"--when what she really should have offered was to share her dream.

***
20 years later and I am sharing my dream... of writing and living with my French loves (family, dogs, friends and readers). Thank you so much for reading!
. 

Comments welcome here.
I read every comment, sometimes twice (hard not to when your Mom points our her favorites, during the daily phone call!). Thank you very much for taking the time to respond to these posts. Click here to read the comments and see you in a week!

***
To find out what happened next, you will have to read my book! Here is an excerpt, from the intro to Words in a French Life: Lessons in Love and Language:

Back in Arizona I found a job selling scale-model cars for a small mail-order catalog, which turned out to be the perfect nurse-your-broken-heart job. Isolated and working in an over-air-conditioned office, I had plenty of time to think about my loss and to watch my French life flash before me: the cottage we had moved into just before I left, the weekends spent fishing oursins, or sea urchins, along the rocky coastline, and ... (click here to order the book.)


This book is especially apropos for people who are trying to find a way in life. Buy a copy for a friend. Order a few copies for gifts. Your book purchases help to support this French word journal. Merci. 

French Vocabulary

n'importe quoi = nonsense, rubbish; whatever

illico (illico presto) = right away

une culotte = panty

le train-train = life's treadmill

petit à petit = little by little

Thanks for visiting our sponsors:

READ & LISTEN to French with FOLLOW-ALONG French/English mystery book & audio CD. Grammar, quizzes, ALL-IN-ONE! $34.95

Hotels in France. Visit EasyToBook.com to find the cheapest hotels in almost all France cities.

 

 When you buy any item at Amazon, via the following links (and at no additional cost to you) your purchase helps support this French word journal.

Exercises in French Phonics is... 
" a great book for learning French pronunciation"
"useful and practical"
"high quality material, good value for your money" --from Amazon customer reviews. Order your copy here.

I Heart Paris Shopper: made of recycled material

I managed to win him back... and to get him all the way to the alter in a centuries-old cathedral near the sea in Marseilles. Just look how scared he looks! Petrified! And I've got that jackpot winner expression on my own face. To comment or to read the comments, click here. (In all fairness, there is one more way to interpret that look on Jean-Marc's face: relief! His would-be bride arrived so late to the wedding that the priest was waiting for her out on the church curb, finger-a-wagging! I tried to put the blame on the cultural misunderstanding (see the marriage chapter, around p. 15) that had occured the hour before, but there was no time to mess around. There was a French man waiting to marry me!!!!

Please forward this story to a friend who is trying, and sometimes failing, to follow a goal... and remind them never to give up their dreams! Il ne faut jamais abandonner ses rêves!





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





This is certainly my most favourite entry ever! Loved it, loved it, loved it!!!
I will definitely pass this one on to others!!!
I do have your book and have not yet had a chance to read it... after reading this part I am definitely getting it out to read from cover to cover!
Sooooooo inspirational!!!

Posted by: Janet  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 01:26 PM
Karen Whitcome (in warm and rainy Towson, Md)

AHHHH. I love your happy ending - scratch that - beginning. Even though you still have to use that list of skills: decluttering rooms, typing papers, washing much more than cars, walking dogs (and all without pay, I might add) - it's the best job ever when you do it for love.

Posted by: Karen Whitcome (in warm and rainy Towson, Md)  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 01:33 PM
Diane

Your comment really touched me today. I am in the same position of not knowing what to do for work. Thanks to you, I will not call my business "N'importe Quoi!."

I liked your comment so much, I ordered your book. Thanks for the inspiration.

Posted by: Diane  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 01:34 PM
Sharona Tsubota

Dear Kristi,

Thank you so much for your final words. I am now living in France, following my own dream to learn about French wine regions and wine by living and working in different places. I started in the Rhône Valley, and now I'm in Champagne. I'm also a writer/blogger, and a wine educator, but I am at a crossroads at the moment, just as you were in Phoenix (minus the car!). It's easy to get discouraged in the face of the unknown, but I will follow your advice and not give up! Who knows, perhaps I'll even find my own adoring French husband someday!

Posted by: Sharona Tsubota  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 01:56 PM
Tom from Detroit

Humorous and heartwarming at the same time! Yes, a true work of "heart" that could only come from your pen. Thanks for a good start to a difficult day.

Posted by: Tom from Detroit  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 01:59 PM
Maureen

.......interesting use of apropos.....??
Is that American vernacular now? An adjective - in the sense of "suitable/relevant/applicable?

Posted by: Maureen  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 02:01 PM
Sndra Fuenterosa

Oh,Kristin!

Your wedding photo is priceless and adobrable! Your joyous grin of success in not only getting that lovely man back into your life, but in joining that life to yours, should have a prize of place setting in your house. It´s one of the loveliest, most graphically happy photos I´ve ever seen. And... I don´t think Jean-Marc looks so much scared as coming to terms with what marriage means.
Thanks for sharing the moment with all of your readers.

Sandra

Posted by: Sndra Fuenterosa  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 02:01 PM
Ken Scupp

Always enjoy each post. Suggestion-Could you possibly put a space between the French sentence and the English translation, so those of us who use it for practice won't automatically see the answer. merci mille fois

Posted by: Ken Scupp  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 02:12 PM
Terry Fardon

I just like you so much!

Posted by: Terry Fardon  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 02:22 PM
Kate Sirkin

Merci Beaucoup!!!! I'm new to your site thanks to a friend trying to help me with my own learning of this wonderful language. I love your stories and how you put the french words into the mix....
I've just returned from Lyon & Paris and cannot wait to return. My language learning is slow but I will get there and I thank you for your part in it.

Posted by: Kate Sirkin  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 02:43 PM
Bill in St. Paul

I love that wedding picture. I think JM looks like he's thinking "Finally! I've tamed her." but your look says to me "That's what he thinks." Great post!

Posted by: Bill in St. Paul  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 03:02 PM
Jan (in Edmonton, Canada)

".......interesting use of apropos.....??
Is that American vernacular now? An adjective - in the sense of 'suitable/relevant/applicable? ' "

The use of "apropos" as an adjective meaning "fitting or appropriate" is hundreds of years old, in French and English.

Great post, Kristin!

Posted by: Jan (in Edmonton, Canada)  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 03:22 PM
Jackie

Kristin, reading your blog of late feel as if you are going through a transition and to read all this is both exciting and sad for me.Lots of change in 20 yrs but you did what you dreamed and it all has worked out for you.Many people dream but never chase their dreams.You have done this and BRAVO to you!!!!!Change is good but needs time to jell. A move yet again, kids adjusting, a happy husband now hes back at the sea,and where do you fit yet again? Embrace the change as you always have,CHANGE is AWESOME!!!!!

Posted by: Jackie  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 03:47 PM
Karene

Dear Kristin, I LOVED this post!!! I bought your books as soon as I discovered your blog several months ago, but alas, I am in grad school, with much less stimulating reading material consuming my days. I can't wait for January, when I will have a break and can catch up with the rest of your life!

It's funny, but I had the same thoughts about you and Jean-Marc before I even read your caption. The joy on your face says it all! And I love that you're glancing at the camera, while JM has a look of nervous anticipation (but after your explanation, relief is probably right!)

You are a kindred spirit, and I love that you are sharing your hopes, fears, dreams with your blog readers. Your vulnerability is something I treasure. Have a wonderful cruise with your friend--you deserve it, and I am sure you will be blessed by this respite in the midst of your very full life.

Posted by: Karene  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 04:05 PM
Karene

Oops, just glanced at the picture, and saw that you are not looking at the camera! Oh, well, your expression is still one of unbridled joy :)

Posted by: Karene  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 04:06 PM
Frances Raedeker

I enjoy your story so much, Kristina. After reading your pieces for a while I decided to tell my story—starting over a year ago. Not being the photographer you are, my site is not nearly so beautiful as yours. However I'm beginning to learn about inserting pictures, etc., despite my age (82) and allergy to technology.

The wedding picture would touch anyone's heart.

Thank you for sharing your heart, Frances
(theladyinthewidebrimmedhat.com)

Posted by: Frances Raedeker  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 04:11 PM
Maria Alexander

The first time I heard that phrase was from a snarky goth girl in Aix-en-Provence. She was talking about Segolene Royale — whom she clearly did not respect — when she rolled her eyes and said the phrase. It was in that perfect American "what-ever" tone. I immediately got it.

Posted by: Maria Alexander  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 04:15 PM
louis Plauche'

Nice piece of writing...she's BAAACKKK...

Posted by: louis Plauche'  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 04:23 PM
Bruce in northwest Connecticut

A marvelous story and a marvelous lesson. One question, though: What the heck is an airpark?

P.S. re: the photo
Jeez Louise, what an insanely good-looking couple!

Posted by: Bruce in northwest Connecticut  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 04:25 PM
julie camp

Reading your stories is my favorite part of the day. Getting all ten fingernails dirty in the garden is my second favorite part.If the parts were pearls, the string and clasp that join and hold them as a necklace is my precious husband.

Thanks, Kristin, for sharing your all.

Where do the little boxes in front of our responses come from? I like their designs and colors. -julie-

Posted by: julie camp  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 04:41 PM
Juli Parrott

Kristin,

Thanks for the reminder that we must all stop and think about our dreams rather than just getting by, day to day. Congratulations on being able to follow your dream!I enjoy reading about your adventures in France and will one day come and visit!

Posted by: Juli Parrott  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 05:02 PM
Carolyn Uyemura

I have been reading your posts for probably five years and enjoy them so much. Your life seems like a fairy tale or a work of fiction! But I know it's got it's ups and downs.i love France and have been trying to learn the language for decades. I always thought n'importe de quoi meant "what ever" not "garbage." I keep learning from you!

Posted by: Carolyn Uyemura  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 05:17 PM
Julia - Falling Off Bicycles

Charming ending to today's story. Thank you. And thank you for the beautiful first photo today. It's so beautiful!

Posted by: Julia - Falling Off Bicycles  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 05:22 PM
Diane Heinecke

Beautiful picture of you two. All of us couples need to remember that Aisle/Altar/Hymn needn't turn into I'll/alter/him. Ha!
Greetings from sunny Georgia, U.S.A.

Posted by: Diane Heinecke  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 05:54 PM
Sheila (WA State)

I greatly enjoyed today's post.

Posted by: Sheila (WA State)  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 06:16 PM
Rina Rao.

Lovely picture---both your expressions are just too good!!! And a fun story.
Thanks for sharing it.
Enjoy your Cruise.
The Festival of Ligts in India--Diwali, is round the corner--so wish you and your family a Very Happy Diwali.
Love, Rina.

Posted by: Rina Rao.  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 06:20 PM
Ellen A.

Kristin,
Lovely story. Your French phrase at the end reminds me of George Eliot's memorable quote: "Il n'est jamais trop tard pour devenir ce que l'on aurait pu etre."

Posted by: Ellen A.  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 07:20 PM
Natalia

Hi dear Kristin,
Your gift as a (talented!) writer always shines through bright and clear--it'd be impossible to choose a favorite post,but today's post HAS to be right at the top of the list of favorites! Absolutely WONDERFUL!
You tell us about yourself without a shred of vanity,and that makes me want to wrap you in a big hug of THANKS for giving us inspiration to do exactly the same with ourselves.The second at the top of the list of favorites is your wonderful "Pourquoi Pas" which so captured my imagination that I remember it still. You've made our day!
Love, Natalia XO

Posted by: Natalia  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 07:31 PM
Pamela Harnois

Kristin, As usual...a terrific story. I can only add a quote that I heard years ago and still try to live by...'what lies before us and what lies behind us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.' You always share with us - what is within you - and for that I am grateful.

Posted by: Pamela Harnois  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 07:54 PM
meredith

Thanks for sharing. Finding our way can be a challenge. bisous :)

Posted by: meredith  Thursday, November 08, 2012 at 08:01 PM
Ron

Thanks, Kristin, for touching us as always with such unbridled truth. As a writer, I know just how hard it is to strike the right "tone." You seem to do it with such ease, though I doubt it's really that easy!

Getting my French Fix watching "Breathless" on TV in the States tonight.

Merci. Au revoir....

Posted by: Ron  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 02:17 AM
susan standke

your wedding picture is so adorable......what a brave and sweetly wonderful life you have!!!!!! you lift my spirit....and help me not to beat myself too much about stuff and/or relationships....perhaps it will all turn out well in the end after all!!!!! susan from alameda california

Posted by: susan standke  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 02:34 AM
june furey

Kristin, you lift my spirit,due to health problems I have't been able to travel to France this year, and I live my dreams through your stories. You will probably never know how much your weekly emails mean to those of us who are unable to live the "dream" Writing about your last 20 years and the indecisions you had you must now realise it was all part of the journey. I am so grateful you have shared "your journey "thank you June, Gold Coast

Posted by: june furey  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 02:51 AM
Catherine Noble

Something about your writing seems very different since you and your family have made this life-altering move...more heartfelt, more real. I'd like to read more about your childrens' adjustment.

Posted by: Catherine Noble  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 03:34 AM
Nancy

That is a beautiful story. You are an artist. Your writing is insightful, subtle, and just plain delightful.

Posted by: Nancy  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 03:35 AM
cheri

You are such a joy to read. I dream of living in France one day, although right now I'm settling for the Central Coast of California in the beautiful wine country of Paso Robles. Keep the good blog vibes coming. Also, I just received your book and am so anxious to read it. Your Mother sounds divine, what a good soul. Cheri

Posted by: cheri  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 03:42 AM
Cheryl in STL

I just got back home from an out of town funeral and saw your email. How nice it was to know I was reading a story with a happy ending!! I LOVE your wedding photo! Thanks for closing out my day with a happy smile!

Posted by: Cheryl in STL  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 05:23 AM
KendalShand

Would you agree that it's time for you to write a novel - you write so well and I think your skills applied to a romantic novel set in the vineyards of France, filled with joy and strife in equal parts, would be a wonderful thing!

Posted by: KendalShand  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 06:59 AM
Michel

Lovely story. In case you didn't see it, your Jean Marc got a nice shout out in the current issue (November 30) of Wine Spectator where the feature article is about the wines of the Rhone valley. Congratulation to Jean Marc!

Posted by: Michel  Friday, November 09, 2012 at 04:19 PM

