Community Picks -- Thanksgiving Turkey

Once again, we want to give a big thanks to all of our volunteer recipe testers for your thoughtful comments and for helping us continue to strengthen our recipe recommendations. You can read the winning headnote and tester's comments by clicking through to the Community Picks recipes — the comments are at the top. And even if the recipe you tested wasn't chosen as a CP, please feel free to leave your testing notes in the recipe's comments section. Constructive criticism is always encouraged!

Community Picks (Tested and photographed by us!)

Thanksgiving Osso Buco

Turkey Schnitzel with Leeks and Butter Sage Sauce

Butter and Herb Roast Turkey

Community Picks (Tested by you!)

Special Occasion Turkey
Maple and Mustard Glazed Turkey with Killer Gravy
Tuscan Turkey Roulade

Photos by James Ransom



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





QueenSashy added 1 day ago

Food52 folks, thank you for including my dish into community picks. And fearlessem, I keep on reading and re-reading your review of my dish, it feel so good, thank you! Whenever I am down, I will go back to reading your review... Cheers!

hardlikearmour added 1 day ago

Thank you editors and especially thank you Dawne Marie! Your review made my day, if not my week!

drbabs added 1 day ago

Sara, I tested your turkey, too. It was fantastic, and got us through several days of no power.

hardlikearmour added 1 day ago

Now my week is definitely made! Glad you had it to munch on during the storm. I hope all is well now.
Me

Kenzi is an Assistant Editor of Food52.
added about 9 hours ago

Don't thank us -- your recipes spoke for themselves!

Merrill is a co-founder of food52.
added 1 day ago

What a gorgeous bird!


Karl is Food52's VP of Technology.
added 1 day ago

Looks mighty tasty!

sdebrango added 1 day ago

Congratulations to everyone and thank you so much for picking my recipe, the photo is gorgeous!

AntoniaJames added 1 day ago

There are a lot of great looking turkey photos out there, but yours has got to be the most beautiful one I've ever seen. Really!! ;o)

sdebrango added about 23 hours ago

Thank you, I wish when I made it it looked that perfect. That turkey is spectacular!
