Gone Snowboarding. Goodbye for now. 9 December, 2011
Posted by lasagnechef in Arsenal News.
trackback

Well as you have noticed this hasn’t really been a good season for me in terms of keeping up the blog! It’s all been for a number of reasons and partly once you start not writing it becomes a bit of a bad habit. There is that, and also that I’m off to France until April to do a ski season. Realistically out there I’m not going to be able to keep the blog going; well if I can’t manage it from London I’m not going to be much better in the Alps with limited internet!

So basically what I plan is to come back with maybe a bit of a season run in writing in April and May and posts over the summer but have a big revamp and relaunch ahead of the 2012/13 season. I’ve had plans for updating the site for a while now and this summer seems like the time to do it. At this time there are so many Arsenal blogs out there that it’s hard to keep up, but together I’m sure we can bring back the glory days of this little blog!…

I don’t want to take the site down or anything though, I know people still come on it to check the Kits page and other links. I’ve also just added a new Wallpaper tab you can see up there. You might’ve downloaded some already in my last blog post but I’ve added another yellow and navy colour-way if you’re interested.

It’s going to be really strange being away from Arsenal for the majority of this season. I’ve been lucky enough to go to most of the home games and few away games this season and I’m loving it to be honest. It’s already been an incredible start to the season, so many ups and downs. We’re just starting to get into form again and find an 11 that can get results. They really seem to be working for each other this season, you can see the desire on the pitch and that’s always great to see. It’s hard to predict how well we’re going to do this season but right now we’re looking like we’re on the up and up. However always with Arsenal a few injuries and we’re fucked again. Robin has been an absolute dream this season, he’s flourished with a clean bill of health and the captain’s armband to boot he’s become Europe’s most clinical striker. His record in 2011 is just incredible; lets just hope he can carry that on into 2012. However take him, Szczesny and a few others out the team and we’re really going to struggle again – that couldn’t have been better demonstrated than at Olympiakos the other night. I’m not quite sure where we would go without van Persie; Walcott and Gervinho have their good days but they’re no RVP replacements. And then we have Chamakh and Park who I have no kind words for right now.

So fingers crossed we can stay as fit as possible. Right now we’re missing all our full backs but we’re still managing to cope. How long we can do that for we’ll have to wait and see but if we can get Sagna and Santos/Gibbs back as soon as possible I’ll feel a lot better.

All this is without mentioning the injured Jack Wilshere. He’s undoubtedly one of, if not the most creative players at Arsenal and getting him back in January/February will be a huge boost. The trio of Song, Arteta and Ramsey are doing well at the moment but adding Wilshere into that is only going to make us stronger. Get well soon Jack.

Whatever the football brings us between now and April it’s sure going to be exciting. I wish I could be in London to see it all but I’ve always wanted to work a ski season so there’s no better time than now really. I’ll miss The Arsenal like crazy but it’s nice to know they’ll be waiting for me when I’m back, hopefully in a decent position! One things for sure though, United and City won’t be in the Champions League. Hahaha! I’m flying out early Saturday morning so I’ll miss the 125th anniversary game vs. Everton, which is a shame for me, but enjoy that those of you going.

So have a good Christmas everyone, make sure the Arseblog Book: ‘So Paddy Got Up’ is filling all of your friends and families stockings this year! I picked up my copy last night at the launch, looking forward to reading that when I’m away. It was an awesome night at The Tollington last night, I’m still feeling horribly rough but it was so worth it. Great to see everyone one last time before I disappear off.

You might catch me over on my twitter from time to time, we’ll see. Otherwise look after my Arsenal for me while I’m gone and sing up in my absence. COME ON YOU GUNNERS!

Until next time.

p.s. Any readers heading to Meribel this winter give me a shout on Twitter or something and maybe we’ll go for a beer. Laters!



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



1. Martin - 9 December, 2011

    I’m an Arsenal supporter from Chicago. Looking forward to the site revamp for next season. The layout/design is what originally drew me to your site, so hopefully you maintain that stylistic edge. Haved fun navigating the slopes.
    	
2. 'holic - 9 December, 2011

    Young fella, I think my skiing/boarding days are behind me, but I hope you have a whale of a time in a great resort. Yes, I’m a little jealous. See you in April? I hope…
    	
3. lasagnechef - 9 December, 2011

    Cheers ‘holic. You will see me in April! I think I’ve marked the Chelsea game as my first.
    	
4. bob mcnabs cat - 12 December, 2011

    You have had a right result. Because beating the likes of wigan, swansea,everton,norwich,west brom,stoke and sunderland does not all of a sudden make our season look any rosier. We are stil going to end potless (again) and be stuck with our one dimentional manager. Even spurs are probably going to finish above us and no sooner have people woken up to the fact that chambolikh is useless we have now got his shorter double gereediho. Like i say, you have had a result if it gets you away from the humiliations we have lying ahead.
    bon voyage
    	
5. mike - 20 December, 2011

    Lasagnechef, I’ve been checking this site here and there since the new stadium has been up and I have to say thanks for the good reviews and I hope you have a good trip!

    Mfeezy From SD
    	
6. LeCiel - 28 December, 2011

    натяжные потолки тут
    	
7. king graham - 15 January, 2012

    Bet you’re glad you are away…
    	
8. pyanaya-mamasha - 28 March, 2012

    http://mypics.troc-city.com/out.php/i63310_3.jpg

    Смотреть: пьяную мать выебали потом обкончали по очереди сын с друзьями

    Мать и сын что может быть эротичнее и сексуальнее чем инцест Инцестсын ебет мать после работы Вдрочнуло Еще порно онлайн кино на мамаша не выдержала и отрахала своего сына она подумалаподумала и сказала Ладно сына думаю ты прав но это неИзпод сильных надбровий порно фото ебут мать на лавку Tata Странно
    	
9. Nonni G - 15 April, 2012

    Hope you’re enjoying your snowboarding
    	
10. zap - 5 May, 2012

    Looooool you’re so lazy I haven’t been on this site for months and there aren’t any updates
    	
11. carpinteyrodei - 16 May, 2012

    

    
    	
12. ku_lac - 19 May, 2012

    Hey! I don’t know it is true or not but heard, that Arséne chasing Fabregas and Yaya Toure.
    I know it sounds strange but makes sense.
    Ivan Gazidis have this mantra year in year out that we really have that financial background.

    Go Gunners
    	
13. TheClockEnd - 30 July, 2012

    Ku_lac….Leave off.

    Hopefully we grab Cazorla though, heard amazing things about him. After that, a versatile defender/defensive midfielder would do.
    	

