
Friendsgiving Recipe Ideas
This Year, Plan a No-Fuss Friendsgiving

Updated Nov 12 2012 - 6:04am · Posted Nov 11 2012 - 3:00am by Nicole Perry · 1 comment
Thanksgiving · Party Planning

Thanksgiving may be the tastiest day of the year, so why celebrate it only once? Instead, plan a Friendsgiving party, a meal where flavor trumps fuss and drama is not allowed. The only necessary ingredients are implied: your second family (friends). Beyond that, look to these recipes, which fall into at least one of these categories: supersimple, make-ahead, or easily transportable (so as to divvy up the responsibilities within your group of friends).

The Normandy Cocktail

Friendsgiving is not Friendsgiving without booze, and lots of it. If you're a cocktail aficionado, shake up easy yet impressive cranberry-apple Calvados cocktails, otherwise ample beer and wine are the way to go. Our top pick? Sparkling wine or Prosecco (or even the champagne of beers)— its light flavor and effervescence plays nicely with everything from cheese to stuffing.

Caramel-Topped Brie

Leave elaborate appetizers for the big day and instead set out a simple cheese plate — preferably with this four-ingredient (including crackers for serving) caramel-topped brie at its center. Spiced nuts are an excellent low-fuss alternative or addition: make your own or pick up a bag at Trader Joe's (their rosemary Marcona almonds are a standout).

Keep reading for everything else from stuffing to sweet potato pie.

Cheesy Squash Casserole

Don't forget to delegate: ask friends to bring easy-to-reheat dishes like this sturdy South-meets-West (not to be confused with Southwestern) cheesy squash casserole. It's also a good make-ahead candidate if you're cooking up the feast in its entirety yourself.

Potato Basil Puree

For a simple twist on classic mashed potatoes, serve up potato basil puree, which not only comes together in a flash but also can easily be made ahead and reheated come mealtime. FYI: while we may endorse shortcuts on other dishes, buck up and make these yourself. We wouldn't wish dehydrated mashed potatoes on our worst enemies, much less our friends.

Andouille Sausage Corn Bread Dressing

Traditional or not, a Friendsgiving meal isn't complete without nearly everyone's favorite dish: stuffing. Try this spicy Andouille sausage and corn bread iteration (another make-ahead/potluck pick) or pick up a box of Stove Top, you're secret's safe with us . . .

Prosciutto-Wrapped Turkey Roulade

Feel no shame in skipping the traditional bronzed bird and instead try this speedy (and only seemingly difficult) prosciutto-wrapped turkey roulade. Alternatively, Whole Foods carries a precooked turkey that only needs to be reheated before serving. Serve it up with ultrasimple cranberry sauce and gravy made with store-bought chicken stock (skip the turkey parts).

Sweet Potato Pie

End things on a sweet note with sweet potato pie that relies on speedy shortcuts like store-bought candied nuts and a press-in graham cracker crust. 
