Screen Play: "Starlet"
Same tree, different apples

So what if your dad invented Toaster Strudel, Gretchen Wieners.

This sweetie dots the I in Hemingway.

Daughter of Mariel, great granddaughter of Ernest, Dree Hemingway gives a breakthrough performance in Sean Baker’s daring SXSW Special Jury Prize winner, Starlet (trailer below), out today.

The scene: California’s sun-drenched San Fernando Valley; Hemingway in jean shorts and a crop top (she’s a model in real life); her poopsie, Starlet, bedazzled in a sparkly collar (he’s a male in real life).

She plays Jane, an aspiring actress — let’s just say it — who does porn. It’s once she meets Sadie, a crotchety old lady, that the two find light at the end of their dark tunnels. (Spoiler alert: Hemingway uses a body double for that one scene; those legs belong to Zoe Voss — a porn star in real life.)

Baker reigned with Prince of Broadway; we’re sure his Harold and Maude-inspired follow-up will please indie crowds.

Even mean girls.

P.S. Baker’s use of a starlet in a film titled Starlet got us thinking. What other silver screeners have starry roots? Here, a few favorites, all of whom have work you can stream on Netflix now.

Actress Grace Gummer
Roots: Daughter (and look-alike) of Meryl Streep
Role: Meskada

Actress Eva Amurri Martino
Roots: Daughter of Susan Sarandon and director Franco Amurri
Role: Middle of Nowhere

Actress Lily Collins
Roots: Daughter of “Sussudio” Phil
Role: Mirror Mirror

Actress Emma Roberts
Roots: Niece of America’s sweetheart
Role: America’s Sweethearts

Actress Allison Williams
Roots: Daughter of dapper newsie Brian
Role: Girls (on HBO on demand)

Actress Zoë Kravitz
Roots: Daughter of Lenny
Role: Beware the Gonzo

Actress Dakota Johnson
Roots: Daughter of Miami’s vice, Don, and Melanie Griffith
Role: Goats

Director Tatiana von Furstenberg
Roots: Daughter of one well-dressed DVF
Film: Tanner Hall

Find Starlet showtimes at fandango.com. For more must-see theater movies, flip through our November list. Staying in? Find something with our GoWatchIt channels or editors-curated Roundup.

Photo: Courtesy of Music Box Films 
