Learn Something New During Connected Educator Month!
Modified on August 1, 2012 by Ronnie Burt	

For much of the world, August means one thing – Back To School!

We know it can be an extremely busy month of preparing classrooms, planning for a new year, and squeezing every second out those last days of ‘vacation’.

But, there is also no better time to sharpen your skills, collaborate with others, and get energized with new ideas!

There are a couple of big resources happening now that we wanted to share…
Connected Educator Month

The US Department of Education has declared August Connected Educator Month, aimed at broadening and deepening educator participation in online communities and networks while providing opportunities for education leaders to work together to move the field forward.

CEM will be be celebrated with four-plus weeks of online events and activities, including forums, webinars, guided tours, open houses, contests, badges, and more.

More than 60 major national education organizations, communities, and companies (including Edublogs) have committed to participate.
How to Participate

It is easy and free to join all of the activities – and anyone is welcome from around all corners of the globe.

Here are some tips:

    Sign up with your email address (in the top right corner here) to get regular updates
    Download and share this complete guide from Powerful Learning Practice
    Create an account (on the calendar here) to bookmark topics that interest you
    Check out the mobile web apps (using this link here) to search the calendar on the go
    Follow @edcocp on twitter

There’s More – Teacher Challenges Are Back!

In conjunction with all of the great resources available during Connected Educator Month, we’ve started up the popular Teacher Challenge free professional development series as well!

This month, we’ll be working through a brand new series on Blogging With Students.

We’ll walk you through everything you need to know to get started with blogging in the classroom – and be there to help answer any questions along the way.

You might also find our previous challenges on Free Web Tools and Building a Personal Learning Network useful too.

Just visit teacherchallenge.edublogs.org to get started!

Happy learning!





