tiny apple

Monday, October 22, 2012 at 9:55PM

Our time in New York City this October was too short. Just way too short. In my head, the time elapsed from when we drove into the city to when we drove out was about 5 seconds. And we LOVE New York City! We are definitely looking forward to May when we return.

Our apartment in NYC this year was really something!  

As in, something tiny.

If Tyler and I laid down on the floor head to head, we would have spanned the length of the "apartment", and if Isaac and Isabelle laid down head to head, that woudl have spanned the width. The couch bed advertised? Wouldn't even fold out all the way, due to the WALL being in the way.

So, yes... good times. When we called the management to complain, or at least get some sort of air mattress in their the kids could sleep on, I was told, "lady, this is New York. Things are small!"

Hmph.

Really, though, we had a great time, enjoyed seeing and dining with our wonderful friends out there, and yes, we can't wait to go back. But yeah, I hope next time the Big Apple gives us an apartment that's just a little bigger.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Hey guys,
have you ever heared of this: https://www.airbnb.com/
They provide a great many pics so you know what you're getting yourself into ;)
Hope you can find something nicer for next time.
October 22, 2012  Maggie
Hi!

I've been reading your blog for awhile and have passed it along to a few good souls.
I live in the big (small) apple. My husband and I would be happy to host your family for a few days. We currently live in Williamsburg (one stop out of Manhattan). We have a very comfy folddown couch and an air mattress.
My husband is a chef & artist & I do global mobility and immigration for Bloomberg. You can reach out to the msg attached if you are interested.
Cheers!
Ashli
October 23, 2012  Ashli Aldrich
I was tortured the whole time you were there without us! That bridge shot makes me wistful.
October 25, 2012  Eve
We just loved our session with you in NYC. Just so happy about it :-))) Loads of fun!!! We can't wait to see the pics and hope to schedule something else in the near future.
Much thanks,
Jennifer and family
October 25, 2012 Jennifer 
