Dawn of the Dad: Fathers Are the New Videogame Superhero

    By Andrew Groen
    11.12.12
    2:46 PM

A broad-shouldered, brick-fisted, angry-looking space marine thunders across the battlefield, bullets screaming from his machine gun as he stares down his monstrous, fascist foes without fear or pity.

Sound like any videogame you’ve played recently? Sound like all of them? There is some hope: The faceless, furious badass main character that has become so cliche in today’s games is dying out, and he’s about to be replaced by a new kind of hero. Dad.

Recently, we’ve seen major games starring characters like a workaday father on a mining operation saving up money for his family (Lost Planet 3), soldiers driven by love of family (Medal of Honor, Dead Space 3) or men acting as surrogate fathers for lost little girls (The Walking Dead, I Am Alive, The Last of Us). In each of these games, the goal seems to be to take videogame storytelling beyond the average cookie-cutter action heroes in order to dig at deeper emotions and motivations.

“People will do absolutely anything for their families,” said Sean Vanaman, lead writer on the Walking Dead videogame. The episodic game series has won critical acclaim for its portrayal of two main characters, Lee and Clementine, who both lose their entire families as the game begins. The player controls Lee and must constantly make decisions as to the fate of young Clementine.

“It was interesting to me give the player a pair of protagonists who were, for all intents and purposes, orphans, and allow the player to be the force that grows them into a family,” he said.

That these games are arriving practically all at once does not seem like a coincidence. Isolated experiments like Heavy Rain, the PlayStation 3 game that put players in the role of a father whose son has been kidnapped, have quickly given way to a flood of games that use stories of fatherhood to tug at player’s heartstrings. But why now?

The obvious explanation would seem to be that gamers are getting older and thus more mature. But this point of view is wrongheaded and “infantilizes the players,” says game designer Vander Caballero. He says that players have always been open to stronger stories. It’s game developers, he says, who are doing the maturing. They’re developing a stronger desire to bring meaning to their work.

While games like Walking Dead pay homage to the subtle heroism of fatherhood, Caballero’s game Papo & Yo takes a markedly darker look at the subject. Papo & Yo, released for PlayStation 3 in August, is an autobiographical game about growing up with an alcoholic father.

Regardless of where the Dad-as-game-hero trend came from, it’s resonating with consumers. Especially when you consider that fatherhood is being utilized in game advertisements even when the game in question has nothing to do with those themes, as in this spot for Darksiders II. Clearly, marketers have found value in picking at that particular emotion.

In a wildly successful (and extremely graphic) advertisement for the horror game Dead Island, a family is shown besieged by the undead, and the father is ultimately forced to throw his young daughter out a fourth-story window after she’s turned into a zombie.

Young fathers took to social media in large numbers to discuss how awful it made them feel, and how painful it was to watch. That might not seem like the kind of feeling you want associated with your product — but then, it was a horror game after all.

Though it began as an obscure project from an equally obscure Polish developer, Dead Island became a highly anticipated title largely thanks to the popularity of that ad. This trailer ultimately had nothing to do with the plot of the game, but Dead Island still went on to sell over four million copies.

Is fatherhood just a new trend, like zombies and World War II, that will fade out just as quickly? Or is it the next step on a long road that will eventually see games dealing with more and more complex, human issues?

It’s tempting to draw a line through gaming history that points to the future evolution of the videogame hero. In the 1980′s heroes were often children like Link from Legend of Zelda. In the 1990′s and early 2000′s we saw them age into vapid super-soldier teen power-fantasies like Duke Nukem and Master Chief. In the late 2000s we saw slightly more emotionally realistic heroes who were mostly bachelors. Today we have the fathers. Will the next generation see characters dealing with grown-up children? Mid-life crises? Prostate cancer?

“I don’t think developers are going to be pouring money into AAA titles that have core gameplay based on getting … a prostate exam,” said Mike McCarthy, senior writer of Medal of Honor: Warfighter, in an e-mail. (Phew.)

But, he says, “you will see more and more games creating genuine emotional resonance around those things that make up our non-gaming lives.”

Next on the list: Mom.

“I think games can represent a much wider breadth of human experience, including all ages, races, genders, etc.,” said Walking Dead writer Vanaman. “My fingers are crossed.”
