Wootini's Weekly Animal Crossing Diary

Dear Diary,

It was kind of a subdued week in Narnia. Not to say that nothing happened, because there were some major developments... but there was nothing Earth-shattering or anything. Just the usual stuff. Oh, just make the jump and you'll see what I mean.

The week began with Gala unexpectedly moving away. I had no idea she was even contemplating it. To be completely honest, I don't remember the last time we spoke, but I'm sure it was recent enough that she would've mentioned her plans. Anyway, that's not the weirdest part of this. No, apparently my friend Ben journeyed to his town and found Gala had moved in, even though the last time Ben had been to Narnia was eons ago. Crazy! Well, I hope she's happier there! Good luck with her, Ben!

I love that even though the last time I visited Hell was probably a year or so ago, people still know that this T-shirt design came from there. And shout out to Adrian, who I'm not even sure still reads these diaries. But shout out anyway!

So I got sick of seeing the mushrooms all over the place, and I started collecting them. The mush furniture series isn't really worth all that much, it turns out, but I did happen to come across an elegant mushroom which goes for 10 grand. That's totally worth digging in the dirt for! Woo hoo!

I also got a good amount of bells off of Octavian when he just sort of randomly accosted me while I was wandering around one day. He noticed I had a golden table, and wanted to buy it. At first, I chastised myself for not putting the golden furniture into storage when I switched it for the spooky set, but then I thought about it and realized that I didn't really need the golden table. I mean, I'm planning on moving by the spring (hopefully!), so I'm sure I don't need to go and decorate with the golden set again. I mean, I'll be lucky if I get around to putting out the mush set for the fall before switching to the jingle or snowman set (or a combination of both) for the winter. And whatever I end up with will likely stick around into the spring anyway because I'm a lazy cuss. And since I'm planning to move anyway, why bother redecorating? So I sold the table to Octavian. Whatever. He's awesome, and if it makes him happy to have a golden table, who am I to stand in his way? At least he didn't try to rip me off!

It took nearly the whole week, but Narnia did finally get a replacement for Gala. Gloria seems a little prissy and proper, since she was a little embarrassed at being caught with all her possessions in cardboard boxes, but we'll have to wait and see. All I can tell right now is that girl needs a serious nap. Or some under-eye concealer. For serious. She's got a lot of boxes and a couple of bags! Am I right? Hello? Is this mic on?

!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Ben said:

Gala is doing fine so far. She's not annoyed any of her neighbors yet, and the gossip queens haven't started any nasty rumors about her. The same can't be said for poor Paté. My neighbors are kind of mean...

Can you not re-order the golden furniture items? I guess I missed out on pretty much all of that DLC from the last year. Oh well, my closets are cluttered as it is.
November 12, 2012 3:27 PM

