I Was Misinformed
The GPS Made Me Do It


By JOYCE WADLER
Published: November 7, 2012

I went to New Jersey to visit my niece the other day, and to make sure I got there promptly, I turned my destiny over to my GPS.


I do this frequently, and while the lady of the GPS and I sometimes differ about routes, she usually gets me where I need to go, dispensing helpful information along the way: As soon as you can, take the first exit ramp on your right, and dump that jerk you have been going out with. Irreplaceable? Not at all. Drive right up to Sing-Sing on visiting day and you’ll find a hundred guys just as reliable: North on the Taconic, merge onto Route 9A, take the Route 133 ramp to Ossining.

Or, more recently: Take a right on Sixth Avenue, drive straight to the bank and remove every dime from that so-called Preferred Savings Account. It’s paying you 0.25 percent. You call that investing? Then take $1,500 and drive us to that nice audio shop of 10th Avenue and update me already.

I haven’t updated GPS because the audio shop, which caters to Masters of the Universe and their $90,000 compensatory vehicles, is very expensive and my feeling tends to be oh, so what if I run into a little traffic, it’s not the Donner Pass. Also because the do-it-yourself update option (which involves sending away for a disc, uploading it into my computer, getting into the car with the computer and getting the computer to talk to my GPS) is too technologically daunting.

Off I go then, with my somewhat outdated GPS, to New Jersey. And three minutes out of the Holland Tunnel, after settling me nicely on the Interstate, GPS tells me to exit onto a minor road, which I do. Then she tells me to make a U-turn as soon as possible and to get right back on the Interstate. Then she tells me to take the first exit back on the minor road and make a U-turn again. We go through this little dance, no exaggeration, four times.

GPS is slinging me around in a Figure 8 and I am making increasingly frantic and illegal U-turns in a little Miata, a car of such heft that if you hit a squirrel, the car is totaled and the squirrel walks away. It does, however, corner beautifully, although this may not matter when an oncoming lane of SUV’s, the mad pit bulls of the highways, are bearing down, blasting their horns, eager to crush you.

My passenger, who is more or less molded into the upholstery by torque, is whimpering, “Can’t you just make a call?” And my passenger, to give you an idea of the seriousness of the situation, is a guy.

But, of course, I am not about to call. One wishes to appear cool to one’s niece, an option that is kaput, now that we have been unable to make the half-hour trip from lower Manhattan to South Orange in less than two hours. And my niece is the epitome of modern cool, a software designer and analyst, the first person from whom I heard the phrase “Craigslist.” When eight months pregnant, she created a blog site for me, which I used only once because I could not master the alien word processing program. Now, having been away from it for four years, I cannot even find it.

I am not, I should say here, one of those boomers who whines about the technology. I love the technology. I have a smartphone, I tweet and the words I speak most often, replacing, “Have you seen my keys?” are “What did we do before Google?” When the inevitable day comes when they offer computer implants and mine is conveniently embedded in my left forearm, it will be able to confirm this: Joyce said, “Have you seen my keys?” 20 times this week and “What did we do before Google?” 105.

But I find I am intimidated by the technology in a way people who grew up with computers are not. There are things I do not believe I can do and the men I go out with do not think they can do either. In one small way, this is a good thing. I have never once feared that I would be surreptitiously taped in a sexual encounter because none of the men my age could set up the equipment.

But more often I am cowed, convinced that when there is a problem, it stems from my incompetence. The Apple TV box, which allows you to stream movies instantly, that three people assured me was a snap to set up? I tried for two hours to get a signal and failed. So I went to Best Buy and got another movie streaming box from a Geek Squad kid who swore it was foolproof. When I got it home I found that it had three cords, conjoined like Siamese triplets, to plug into an area in back of the TV that had only two outlets.

One solution would have been to move GPS into the house and let her talk with the boxes, machine to machine. GPS would have known instantly that the Apple Box wouldn’t work with my TV, not because I was technologically incompetent, but because my TV was too old. GPS would have know that the way to make the box with three cords work was just to peel off one of the cords and plug in the remaining two. GPS wouldn’t just hit reheat on the microwave and hope for the best; she could tell it how long and at what level.

But GPS is so bossy, I fear her. It would just be a matter of time before she would be waking me up at 6:30 in the morning, giving me orders: Get out of the apartment. Take a right on 14th Street. Go to the gym. Get on the eliptical trainer. No, it’s not a horrible machine; it’s my cousin. Turn on the computer. Get back to online dating. Don’t be so critical; he’s probably very nice. Do you want to die alone? Without being touched by anyone ever again? Because right now, Mitik the orphan walrus is having more bodily contact than you.

GPS can stay in the car.

Follow Joyce Wadler on Twitter: @joyce_wadler

You can follow Booming via RSS here or visit nytimes.com/booming. 
