Taurus Judge “Public Defender”

Most shooters know the Taurus “Judge” has been on the market for years. In addition to the original model there have been several new variations released over the years with the PD being one of the newest.

The model reviewed is the Public Defender. The PD fires 2.5 inch .410 shells as well as 45 Colt rounds. There are models of the Judge series that fire 3-inch shells. These are larger in size than the Public Defender. In fact this model is not much larger than a “J” frame with the exception of the cylinder size, which increases the overall size considerably.

It’s a very versatile handgun for defense as well as a fitting revolver for those walking the trails or hunting. Of course using 2.5 inch shells loaded with birdshot will take care of snakes or any other small varmints that cross your path.

The Public Defender is an all stainless steel revolver with a 2 inch barrel and a cylinder chambered for 2.5 shotgun shells as well as most (see disclaimer below) 45 Colt loads. The grip is small and would be a good fit for those with small to medium sized hands. Weight comes in at 26 ounces. A good deal of this weight is in the cylinder.

My example has a smooth double action trigger pull coming in at 10.5 pounds. This will most likely decrease with use. The single action is crisp with no creep. With the red fiber optic front sight it’s quick to get on target. Of course it has the standard trigger lock built into the hammer.

Considering the size of the PD it’s obvious it’s made more for personal protection than anything else.

The Judge series is responsible for many of the ammunition companies creating a wider variety of .410 ammunition. One of the better defense loads is the Winchester PDX1 personal defense ammo. This is a combination load with three buckshot disk and 12 pellets traveling at 750 fps. Federal also makes a ½ ounce standard slug and 000 buck. An Internet search will yield a good number of loads to fit your needs.

When you talk 45 Colt rounds you need to use some common sense here. Most loads will work fine and be safe to fire however there are those companies who make extremely hot rounds for use in larger framed revolvers. You certainly want to stay away from Buffalo Bore 45 Colt loads and others with similar ballistics. You will detonate the gun and yourself using this type of load! Something along the lines of Winchester Silvertip would be appropriate for defense. The ballistics on the Silvertip send a 225 grn round downrange at 900 fps. That’s more than enough for personal protection in the Public Defender.

Range Time

I used a wider variety of ammunition for this review because of the ability of this revolver to use so many different loads.

In the range sessions I used the mentioned Winchester PDX1, Federal 000 buck, Federal ½ inch slugs and Federal 6 1/2 birdshot. For the 45 Colt loads I used Winchester Silvertips, which were about 15 years old, but hey they all worked! I also used some handloads of 7.5 grains of Power Pistol under a 250-grain lead round nose bullet.

Starting with the 45 colt loads I found them to be accurate from the 2 inch barrel out to 20 yards. Groups at 10 yards came in at an average of 1 ¼ inch. Backing up to 20 yards, using Silvertips, groups averaged just over 2 inches standing unsupported.

The 410 loads were interesting. The standard birdshot spread out to 9 inches at 10 yards. Taurus says they engineered the barrel to make the shot spread at closer distances. They succeeded a little more than I prefer at that distance. The 000 buck stayed within 6 inches at 15 yards. By far the best results were obtained with the Winchester PDX1. At 15 yards the group spread was between 4 and 5 inches. I would consider this ideal for this type of personal defense ammunition. I did fire a few at 10 yards, which yielded groups just under, and right at 4 inches.

Also, the ribbed grips do a very good job handling recoil not that the recoil is at all bad.

I did shoot some milk jugs of water with 45 Colt Silvertips and the PDX1’s. In short the PDX1 load caused more destruction than the Silvertips which did surprise me a bit.

Conclusion

The Public Defender turned out to be a viable option for personal defense especially with loads meant for that purpose. Namely the Winchester Silvertip 45 Colt and the Winchester Supreme Elite PDX1 in .410.

Honestly when I first headed for the range I wasn’t that sure the Taurus was really a good idea for defense. With the performance it turned in I see it now as more than adequate for defense and certainly for varmint control.

What would I use for defense? I’d most likely mix the 5 rounds with three Silvertips and two PDX1’s or three PDX1’s and two Silvertips. I’d be comfortable with either mix.

Is it an ideal defense gun? Not really but then I’d recommend this small revolver as a good all around choice especially for those on a limited budget.

http://www.winchester.com/Products/New-Products/Pages/pdx1-410.aspx

http://www.taurususa.com/gun-selector-results.cfm?series=41&toggle=tr
Related Posts

    Taurus Judge Public Defender .410 / .45
    Taurus Zombie Responder
    Taurus Judge with Rail and Ported Barrel
    Man shoots himself in both legs with Taurus Judge while driving



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




    Daveywrote on November 13th, 2012 at 5:49 am   

    Once again, Taurus revolvers float to the surface.

    If you want a revolver that isn’t a gimmick, get one chambered for .45LC or .45acp or .44 anything.The long cylinder makes the gun heavier and bulkier without much additional capability.

    So what’s the .410 good for? rodents and snakes. OK – so it’s a nifty rat and snake gun, but it’s a little specialized for my use (see Alton Brown’s complaints about single-taskers). My .357 is fine by me because I can hit any snake or other critter within striking distance with bullets.

    Regarding self-defense, I’ll consider being impressed when I see stuff like the PDX load being subjected to the FBI ballistic gelatin tests. If anybody dares shoot at a human with .410 bird shot, file the front sight off first. It will hurt less when they take it from you and shove it up your…
    
        Phil Whiteresponded to Davey on November 13th, 2012 at 8:19 am   

        Davey,

        410 birdshot won’t do much that’s certain but then again it’s for small animals and such not defense. Charter does make a 44 special which would work for your criteria. It’s not heavy at all and kicks pretty hard.

        Then again if inclined you can load some birdshot for varmints and a few Silvertips for two legged predators. I’m only talking about using it as a woods gun.

        As far as gelatin test on the PDX1 I haven’t seen any gelatin test.
        
            Kyleresponded to Phil White on November 13th, 2012 at 8:58 am  

            I’m going to Borrow/Steal from Box of Truth but “Birdshot is for the birds.”

            Get the PDX loads they suggest here, or .410 buckshot or slugs. Leave the birdshot for the pests
           
    GlokBLokwrote on November 13th, 2012 at 5:48 am   

    the name public defender may not be the best name. public defenders are of very poor quality and rarely work. lets hope the company renames their pistol.
   
        Phil Whiteresponded to GlokBLok on November 13th, 2012 at 8:12 am   

        GlokBLok,

        Having been around a lot of public defenders as a police officer it’s rare to find a good one so–yes I agree.
        
    Cameronwrote on November 12th, 2012 at 8:37 pm   

    The other day, while getting my car serviced, I struck up a conversation with one of the counter guys about guns. My happiness at finding a fellow shooter soured quickly, when he began talking about the “tactical” applications of his Hi-Point pistol, and how his friend had an FNP-9 he had been issued in the special forces. When I tried to salvage the situation by saying that FNP-9 was, indeed, a very nice DA/SA, having one in my own gun safe, he snorted derisively and said “The kind of FNP-9 he has, you can’t get.”

    I would bet the cost of my car’s maintenance that this gentleman had a Taurus Judge lying around somewhere…

    After having three Tauri fall apart on my family over the last two years, and watching the lackluster results of .410 out of a pistol far more ungainly than a similar platform delivering .45LC, I’m afraid I just don’t have a nice think to say about the Brazilian bull. I’d rather rely on a quality knife to save my life than a Taurus firearm. Dramatic? Yes. But when you have a .38 Special revolver lock up completely after four shots, a 1911 drop its safety into the dirt on the first 100 rounds, and a compact 9mm fail to eject every other round, you tend to sour on a brand…
    This comment has been well-received! What do you think?
        Phil Whiteresponded to Cameron on November 13th, 2012 at 4:21 am   

        Cameron,

        He was way off on the FNP-9 for sure. I’ve had problems with one Taurus but all the others I’ve tested have been fine. You had some bad luck there!
        
    Sianwrote on November 12th, 2012 at 8:01 pm   

    not sure how I feel about it, but I know slash work with this semi-famous former-SF guy who has a good-sized ranch, and he carries a Judge when he walks his fenceline, since it can handily take care of anything from snakes on up. It’s not the best at any one job, but it can do a lot of jobs reasonably well, and that’s not bad.
    
        Phil Whiteresponded to Sian on November 13th, 2012 at 4:20 am   

        Sian,

        And that is exactly what this gun is for in spite of the name.
        
        Phil Whiteresponded to Sian on November 13th, 2012 at 8:35 am   

        Sian,

        Well said and you make some good points.
        
    Big Daddywrote on November 12th, 2012 at 5:41 pm   

    If you where legally able to carry a firearm why would anybody choose this one? I have a few ideas. My best guess would be if they could carry only one weapon and had to face many different possible dangers this might be a GOOD choice.

    I would think walking around out doors in certain areas there might be smaller animals that you would need protection from. A rattlesnake or a rapid skunk/dog/coyote or other small animals come to mind. By having the ability to also use 45 Colt this now becomes a weapon that after you fire 2 rounds of .410 the next would be a possible kill shot if needed. There is new and more effective .410 ammo available now.

    The .410 would dispatch a small animal a lot easier and faster than having to aim and shoot at a fast moving small target. It would also be safer than firing a lot of rounds of even .22, less chance of a ricochet or worse in the heat of a dangerous situation, especially for the untrained. Also 2 rounds of .410 hitting a dangerous human target or two, than having 3 rounds of 45 Colt sounds pretty good for defensive purposes.

    A scenario might be walking around the backwoods in lets say New Mexico or other desert type area. One of these very dangerous small animals come close enough to attack. This would dispatch them easily without having to make that perfect shot. To make sure the job is finished you have the 45. A rabid small mammalian is NO joke. Neither is a large mammalian like a cougar or the two legged kind of predator.

    Walking around carrying a rifle or shotgun might actually make you a target for the human kind. Also the weight factor of having to carry a larger firearm to just go for a nice walk outdoors kills some of the fun.

    So for the semi-trained in firearms person who needs a small weapon that can take care of any threat this is a good choice. For a specific tool and I consider firearms a tool for a trained shooter no this would probably not be their choice.

    Something to consider is the people you are with, they might feel better that you not have a rifle or shotgun and would be more comfortable with you having a sidearm hidden. Or some people would feel better if you had a side arm and a shotgun, I know I would. But not everybody feels as I do. I would have both and would want others to also.

    This gun has a place and a job, it’s just a tool. I would feel a lot better walking around someplace in the wilderness with this than just a knife.
    This comment has been well-received! What do you think? 
        Phil Whiteresponded to Big Daddy on November 13th, 2012 at 4:18 am   

        Big,

        Well said and I couldn’t agree more. Have you ever seen the video of the man mowing his lawn and being attacked by a rabid Coyote? He was lucky and was finally able to get inside and retrieved his shotgun. He would have been much better off had he had a revolver like this while mowing. They also had an alert about more rabid Coyotes in the area so it wouldn’t have been silly to carry under the circumstances.
        
        Big Daddyresponded to Big Daddy on November 13th, 2012 at 6:26 am   

        No is it on youtube? I do know of a lot of instances were people where bitten by animals and they had to go through a lot. They had to try and find the animal, if not you had to have those shots done in your stomach if there was any possibility the animal had rabbies. I don’t know the process now that was a long time ago.

        Honestly this would be a pretty good gun to have. I just lived through Sandy and there was a lot more looting than was being reported. The next one is going to be worse. A weapon like this is great to have in the dark when someone is coming through your window uninvitied if you are not a highly trained shooter. Much less chance of injury to others like a 12 gauge or 9mm or AR.

        It has it’s place in your tool box.

        Too bad we have a mayor who is dead against anybody having firearms. The problem is the dead end up the ones that should have them and the ones that should not have them do.
       
    bbmgwrote on November 12th, 2012 at 5:23 pm   

    “With the performance it turned in I see it now as more than adequate for defense and certainly for varmint control.”

    I don’t think shooting water-filled milk jugs is a sufficiently scientific test in order to come to that conclusion in a scientific manner. Not saying that someone struck by one of these would just shrug it off, but it’s clear looking at tests in ballistic gel on other online resources that penetration depth leaves quite a bit to be desired for multiple projectiles from such a short barrel, several inches short of the generally accepted 12 inch minimum for self defense.
    This comment has sparked a hot debate! What do you think? 
        Phil Whiteresponded to bbmg on November 13th, 2012 at 3:57 am   

        bbmg,

        It wasn’t meant to be scientific by any means rather an opinion. I doubt you’ll find any shotgun using buckshot penetrating past 12 inches. The area they do contact is pretty good size and causes a lot of damage.

        410 guys not a 12 ga.
        
            bbmgresponded to Phil White on November 13th, 2012 at 6:13 am  

            According to this page, a “a 2¾ inch Federal Classic load of 00 buckshot (9 pellets) fired from an 18 inch barreled Remington 870 Marine Magnum” put its pellets between 18 and 23 inches into a gelatin block.

            http://www.texashuntingforum.com/forum/ubbthreads.php/ubb/showflat/topic/195406/gonew/1

            There simply is no comparison between a long barreled 12 gauge and a snub nosed 410, no matter what awesome vision the thought of a “shotgun revolver” conjures up in the public imagination.

            If given the choice between three projectiles that will penetrate 6 inches into tissue and a single projectile that will penetrate 12 inches, I will go for the latter. If you expect to encounter snakes, there are plenty of snake shot cartridges out there for common centrefire pistol calibres.
            
            Phil White bbmg on November 13th, 2012 at 8:26 am  

            bbmg,

            Yes a 12 ga will penetrate to those depths with no problem at all. I used a mix of magnum 12 ga 00 buck and slugs on duty.On raids it was only slugs since the risk of hitting innocents with buckshot was high fired from my 870 with a 14 inch barrel.

            There is just no way you can compare a revolver like this with a full size shotgun.

            Someone brought up a retired S/F guy who walks his fence line with a Judge and I can’t fault his choice for that use.
            
            Nick Pacificresponded to Phil White on November 13th, 2012 at 7:25 am  

            Federal #1 Buck LE132-1B – all pellets penetrated in the 14-18″ range, as tested by Dr. Gary Roberts. You need to be careful when you make statements like this.
           
            Phil Whiteresponded to Nick Pacific on November 13th, 2012 at 8:11 am  

            Nick,

            In a 12 ga. I have no doubt they would but we’re talking 410. I very much doubt A 410 would penetrate to that degree. We’re also talking an LE load.
           
            bbmgresponded to Phil White on November 13th, 2012 at 9:39 am  

            http://www.410handguns.com/410_gel_results.html

            Winchester Super X 5-Pellet 000 Buckshot

            Pellet Penetration (Inches) = 5.50, 7.00, 7.00, 10.00, 12.00

            Winchester Super X 3-Pellet 000 Buck

            Pellet Penetration (Inches) = 6.50, 7.50, 16.50

            These look like better loads than the fancy disk/BB cartridges.

            Looking at pellet deformation, it seems a lot of energy is wasted in the projectiles squashing against eachother under acceleration. This also turns them into very poor shapes for both flying through the air without losing too much velocity, and also penetrating effectively.

            A sabot that supports the projectiles more effectively in the barrel, or pellets made of a harder alloy would ensure that they perform even better. Replacing them with 3/8″ steel slingshot ammo, roughly the same diameter, would be an interesting experiment.
           
    Jameswrote on November 12th, 2012 at 5:02 pm   

    Ah the Judge… the handgun for people who don’t know ANYTHING about handguns.
    This comment has been well-received! 
        Phil Whiteresponded to James on November 13th, 2012 at 3:52 am   

        James,

        There must be a lot of people like that because they sure sell well.
        
            Jamesresponded to Phil White on November 13th, 2012 at 10:22 am  

            Yes, ignorance abounds in all walks of life. (even the shooting world) Advertising tends to capitalize on that BECAUSE there are so many stupid/misinformed/ignorant people out there. The Judge being popular has little to do with it being a decent gun. It’s simply huge and marketed heavily, which is about all you need to do to get dumb guys to buy it. To those not in the know about what makes a good defensive handgun, biggest = best. Taurus just plays that up as much as they can. It’s good for them but bad for the poor fool who gets stuck trying to defend themselves with a Judge. I’ll take my Glock or M&P any day. But then again, I’m knowledgeable and well trained… not the typical Taurus customer.
           
        Willresponded to James on November 13th, 2012 at 10:15 am   

        Highly agree. I’d much rather have a .357 snub that I could put full power .357s in or .38 +p’s.

        Andrew for the Vuurwapen Blog summed up the Judge series nicely.
        http://vuurwapenblog.com/2012/03/27/the-taurus-judge-is-just-not-very-good/
        
    Noodleswrote on November 12th, 2012 at 5:02 pm   

    I wish this fad would die out. Not saying there is no need for these guns, because I could see them making excellent snake guns. But as a defensive carry gun they are not replacements for other viable and effective options.

    Call them what they are, novelty or snake/snapping turtle guns/etc guns, but please stop trying to convince people to carry these against 2-legged threats. I wouldn’t carry a revolver at all after training with 15-18 round mags of 9mm and fast effective follow-up shots on multiple targets. Go away fad!
    This comment has been well-received! 
        Big Daddyresponded to Noodles on November 12th, 2012 at 5:47 pm   

        I agree 100%, but under certain circumstances it might be the right tool for the job. By no means should this be a weapon that is considered for personal defense against other people with bad intentions. That would be a mistake that could cost someone their life. If it is being sold as a personal defense weapon that should stop immediately.

        The name “Judge” and “Public Defender” are poor choices and misleading.
       
        Phil Whiteresponded to Noodles on November 13th, 2012 at 3:52 am   

        Noodles,

        I doubt that will happen. They sell very well with more models coming out. Like I said if your budget doesn’t allow for multiple guns this would most likely work as well as any at this price.
        I’m not even going to get in the semi auto vs. revolver debate.
        
    Jim Marchwrote on November 12th, 2012 at 4:34 pm   

    NAA is threatening to get in on the smaller end of this market with a magnum-frame minirevolver optimized for use with 22Magnum shotshells. The barrel will be partially rifled (for legal reasons) but with enough smoothbore to pattern better.

    The preliminary name is “Second Year Law Student Clerking For A Municipal Court Traffic Commissioner”.
    This comment has been well-received! 
        Phil Whiteresponded to Jim March on November 13th, 2012 at 3:48 am   

        Jim,

        I like the name:-) The reason Taurus came up with the “Judge” is there are so many Judges who carry while on the bench. I’ve seen my share who in fact do carry.
       
            Jim Marchresponded to Phil White on November 13th, 2012 at 8:11 am  

            Great, but now we’ve got the “Judge”, the “Public Defender”, the “Circuit Judge” and now S&W jumped in with the “Governor”. NAA could just continue the trend :) .

            But it’s not like I’m one to complain about weirdness. I’m the lunatic who has a New Vaquero in 357 rigged to gas-power-eject empty shells as I shoot, and I’m now collecting the parts to add magazine feeding including a full-on 9mmPara conversion. Should have the new gas cap built tomorrow AM and then I can start assembling this beast. Picture tubular mags that plug into the rear of the frame just left of the hammer from the shooter’s POV – 1ft tubes will hold at least 8rds, maybe 9 (haven’t tested the spring compression yet – I’m using Wolff coil springs meant for a 30-30 levergun mag!). Once the cylinder is dry from gas-ejecting the empties and an empty chamber passes in front of the mag, it’ll inject new rounds forward. Over once to fire, empty shell goes another position over and gets gas-ejected by the previous round. Once I have the mag feed running I can ditch the stock ejector rod and run a gas line to a much cleaner location plugged into the frame where the ejector rod housing used to be. Should be hilarious, esp. since Steel Challenge and ICORE rules don’t exclude this crazy critter (yet!).
            
    Giolli Jokerwrote on November 12th, 2012 at 4:26 pm   

    Should I carry this gun I wouldn’t load it with .410:
    http://lehighdefense.mybigcommerce.com/45-colt-judge-governor-200-gr-me/
    http://lehighdefense.mybigcommerce.com/45-colt-300-gr-mp/
   
        Phil Whiteresponded to Giolli Joker on November 13th, 2012 at 3:45 am   

        Giolli,

        In most cases the 45 Colt will be more effective. That ammunition you linked to is impressive.
       
    Jeremiahwrote on November 12th, 2012 at 4:04 pm   

    I’m sure it would keep me safe from all the paper muggers out there.
    This comment has been well-received!
        Phil Whiteresponded to Jeremiah on November 13th, 2012 at 3:27 am   

        Jeremiah,

        No doubt :-)
        
    hikerguywrote on November 12th, 2012 at 1:59 pm   

    I have yet to shoot one, but those I know who own them speak highly of them. Looks like the ultimate belly gun to me. Taurus gets the blue ribbon for this one.
    This comment has sparked a hot debate! What do you think? 
        noob hikerguy on November 12th, 2012 at 3:41 pm   

        I wonder if it is small and light enough to deep conceal in a belly band, or something like a smart carry or thunderwear…

        http://www.itstactical.com/warcom/accessories/deep-concealment-face-off-smartcarry-vs-thunderwear/

        It looks like it may be a touch heavy for an ankle holster, unless you have beefy ankles.

        Would you have a carry gun and a backup in one caliber? Say if you were a glock guy you’d carry a glock 22 and a baby glock 27 both in .40 S&W, with the ability to share mags?

        Or is it more practical to have a carry gun in a general purpose caliber and your backup in “shtf” caliber – say a full sized G22 in .40 S&W and a Judge Public Defender in deep concealment loaded with the PDX1 and Silvertip combo for contact range fire?

        In other words – Is your backup pistol a weapon to be used in case of mechanical failure or loss of your primary pistol?

        Or do you pull your backup gun as a “different tool for a different job”? As in your primary weapon is for aimed fire at 10 to 25 feet, your backup is for contact fire to disengage from a grappling assailant?
       
            Rob J. noob on November 12th, 2012 at 5:30 pm  

            The cylinder size of the Public Defender would probably preclude most comfortable styles of concealed carry without printing, unless you’re a particularly beefy individual. That being said, it looks like thunderwear may be the exception, where you might not mind the printing… unless you’re a woman.

            As for your other question on backup guns, I think the general consensus is that backup guns aren’t really necessary if you know your primary is reliable, and you’ve practiced drawing and retaining with a firm grip. If you feel the need to carry a backup anyway, I wouldn’t treat it any differently from the primary in terms of usage- all handguns are more accurate than the shooter (even hi-points), the only exception being the Taurus Judge series (due to minimal rifling engagement). Also, if you’re pulling out a more accurate gun for a distance shot (>15 yards), you’re probably doing the whole “self-defense” thing wrong anyway.

            The only difference between your primary and backup is that your backup is smaller, because it’s enough weight on your belt carrying just one gun and a spare magazine. Caliber doesn’t really matter, 9mm +P JHP is honestly more than enough for any realistic civilian self-defense situation, SHTF or otherwise. Also, unless your backup is really tiny, ankle holsters are just not comfortable, and will definitely wear on you if you plan to do any amount of sustained walking. If you insist on a backup, I’d recommend a crossdraw IWB, accessible to both hands.
           
            Phil Whiteresponded to Rob J. on November 13th, 2012 at 4:11 am  

            Rob,

            Before I retired I carried a backup all the time. In police work you have a much greater likelihood of multiple assailants than a civilian does.Having said that I seldom carry a backup anymore.

            I’ll jump into this ankle holster discussion by saying I hate the things for any purpose. It takes forever to draw from. My opinion is a bit biased but I lost a friend at the PD who tried to get at a backup gun in an ankle holster and it cost him his life. After that and some testing the PD put out a new directive which forbade anyone using an ankle holster on or off duty.

            As far as size of the gun is concerned you might be surprised at the size of gun you can carry without printing.
           
            Phil Whiteresponded to noob on November 13th, 2012 at 3:42 am  

            noob,

            Man that’s a hard question to answer. At the PD they wanted everyone with a backup (at their own expense) to carry in the same caliber as the duty gun. The idea was to exchange ammo with each other. We all pretty much agreed that whatever the choice it’s easier to change guns than mags if the fight is closeup. Of course the idea of failure of the primary is always a consideration. Honestly though I’ve never even heard of that happening.

            It really does come down to what you feel most comfortable with. The only thing that would make me tend to choose the combination of PDX1 and Silvertip in a small revolver is the revolver being less likely to jam in a contact situation. I would think the most likely need would be for a contact gun rather than the ability to share ammo.

            I don’t see any reason you couldn’t carry one in a belly band but ankle carry would be out.
            
        Phil Whiteresponded to hikerguy on November 13th, 2012 at 2:38 am   

        hikerguy,

        They sure thought out of thr box on this design!
       


