Ohio Still Awaits Gov. Kasich’s Obamacare Decisions
No word yet on exchanges or Medicaid expansion

By: Jason Hart (Diary)  |  November 12th, 2012 at 04:00 PM

Ohio Governor John Kasich still has not announced official decisions on Obamacare exchange implementation or Medicaid expansion, major factors in the federal Goliath’s reach into the Buckeye State. With President Obama reelected and no chance of Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) repeal, choices left to the Republican administration by the 2010 law are more important than ever.

In a November 9 column at National Review Online, Cato Institute health policy expert Michael F. Cannon explained why no state should create PPACA exchanges or expand Medicaid eligibility. Ohio is one of 14 states where state-run exchanges would be illegal due to PPACA’s coverage mandates, and neither exchanges nor Medicaid expansion would be affordable for the state’s taxpayers.

Media Trackers contacted Ohio Department of Insurance (ODI) Communications Director Chris Brock on November 7 to inquire about Kasich’s decision on exchange implementation.

“We’re still leaning toward letting the federal government run the exchange in Ohio,” Brock replied. “The deadline for telling HHS what Ohio will do is Nov. 16 and we will have more information by then.”

Although the administration appears to be waiting until the last minute to officially refuse calls from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to create state-run exchanges, Lieutenant Governor and ODI Director Mary Taylor has been a consistent critic of PPACA.

On June 28, immediately following the U.S. Supreme Court decision upholding most of PPACA, Taylor expressed her belief that creating a PPACA exchange would be a mistake.

“At this point, the governor and I don’t see how it is in the best interest of Ohioans to have a state-run exchange,” Taylor told reporters on a conference call.

“Quite frankly, we don’t even see where the additional money would come from in order for us to run that exchange,” Taylor added. “We estimate, based on the reports that were issued last year by the Department of Insurance, that it would be an additional $43 million new state money, on an annual basis, in order for us to run a state-based exchange.”

In the months following the Supreme Court ruling, Kasich’s administration has been hounded by progressive groups for its failure to embrace PPACA.

Asked about expanding Medicaid eligibility up to 133 percent of the federal poverty line as the bill calls for, Eric Poklar of the Governor’s Office of Health Transformation told Media Trackers on November 8, “at this point we’re trying to determine how Ohio will pay for the ACA’s extra $700 million in Medicaid costs in 2014 and 2015.”

“We haven’t made a decision on expansion yet,” Poklar said.

On the same June 28 conference call where Taylor spelled out reasons why the state did not plan to construct PPACA exchanges, Medicaid director John McCarthy noted that Ohio lacked the funds to pay for higher Medicaid enrollment even without raising the threshold for eligibility.

“All of the reforms that we’ve been doing in the last budget, trying to get savings, we haven’t come close to getting $369 million in savings to cover that cost,” McCarthy said.

Nonetheless, Governor Kasich refused to take a firm position against expanding Medicaid in an August 2 interview on conservative podcast Coffee & Markets.

“I’ve instructed my staff to begin to talk to Democrat and Republican staff members for governors to see if there’s a way that we can carve something out here,” Kasich said – even while repeating McCarthy’s warnings about the staggering increase in Medicaid expenses that will result from PPACA mandates.

Unlike the fast-approaching November 16 deadline to inform HHS which exchange path Ohio will take, taxpayers could be left waiting for answers about Medicaid expansion for years. A federal Medicaid official recently told The New York Times “there is no deadline” for expanding eligibility, though federal assistance for the expansion will start to decline three years after PPACA takes full effect in 2014.

With national debt now exceeding $16.2 trillion, the federal government cannot afford to pay for either Medicaid expansion or federally-run exchanges. At publication, 11 states have refused to implement state-run PPACA exchanges and 20 more have made no decision.

As Independent Women’s Forum senior policy analyst Hadley Heath told Media Trackers in July, “What [HHS] would have to do, ultimately, if they were going to abide by what they put into the statute would be to go into many states and create the federal exchanges there – and they simply don’t have the money.”

Cross-posted from Media Trackers Ohio.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





    http://www.bohnetlaw.com rightappeal

    Starve the beast. If the GOP governors won’t make their states pay the new costs and the GOP House won’t authorize further expansion of the deficit, the Dems are going to finally be forced to make some tough spending decisions.
    DerKrieger

    I sent the below letter to ALL GOP governors via snail mail last Friday.

    Dear Governor,

    I am writing as a deeply patriotic American, a veteran, a husband, a father, and someone who loves this country too much to give up on it.

    I, like many conservatives, am extremely disappointed in the outcome of the election; I believe if conservatives don’t act to stop the president we will emerge from his last four years as a socialist country with only a thin veneer of free market capitalism and individual liberty remaining.

    Having become quite intimate with the Constitution over the last several years I believe our ‘salvation’, if you will, is the 10th Amendment and a return to federalism.
    The Founders, as you well know, didn’t seek to establish an all-powerful central government with the power to dictate how we free citizens manage our lives, and I refuse to submit to such a government. I demand to retain my God given right to take care of myself. I will not become a subject whose life is directed from cradle to grave by a smothering nanny state.
    The Founders, in their infinite wisdom, included the 10th Amendment in the Constitution to explicitly state that those powers not specifically enumerated to the federal government were to remain with the states and the people.

    Since the Wilson era, and possibly since the end of the Civil War, the federal government has usurped more and more of the states’ rightful powers and over time reduced the states to little more than administrative units of the central government. This centralization more than anything is responsible for much of the gridlock and acrimony in DC as the liberal and conservative world views clash over how large and intrusive the federal government ought to be. The Liberal agenda of redistribution, ‘fairness’, equality of outcome, et al cannot succeed without the centralization of power.

    So much of what comes out of the federal government today and since the New Deal is grossly unconstitutional and well beyond their enumerated powers.
    Obamacare is perhaps the best, most recent example of unconstitutional legislation; in spite of the SCOTUS ruling.

    Now that Obama has been reelected Obamacare is likely to become permanent until such time it, and other programs, collapses the welfare state. Since Obamacare is without a doubt unconstitutional, I believe that it is well within the 10th Amendment powers of the states to reject it and to prevent its implementation within their borders. Without cooperation from the states it cannot survive.

    I believe that it is well past time for the states to reassert their constitutional powers to rein in the federal government, protect their citizens from the rapacious predations of the socialists that have taken over the Democrat party, and to seize back those powers that have for so long been usurped.

    The beauty of federalism is that it allows the states to compete with each other to limit government, limit taxation, and allow states’ residents to mold their state governments to best suit their needs. With the usurpation of so many states’ prerogatives that system has broken down. Now the impact of Nevada electing a Harry Reid has serious repercussions to me as a citizen or Arkansas. It wasn’t supposed to be this way.

    I am writing to all GOP governors, the Republican Governors Association, and as many TEA Party groups as possible in the hope that I can get someone, anyone, to take up the banner of conservatism, Americanism, the Constitution, and the reestablishment of self-determination and liberty through the use of the 10th Amendment. I hope that We the People can count on you to be one of the leaders of this movement.
    DerKrieger

    Federal assistance? That’s just taking money from the left pocket to ay for Medicaid expansion instead of the right pocket. Either way taxpayers foot the bill.
    DerKrieger

    GOP governors must refuse to implement exchanges and the House must refuse to fund HHS. Obamacare CAN be starved to death and be made so unworkable that it collapses.
    SoFiMil

    So AppleBees and PapaJohn’s make changes regarding their employees working hours in response to ObamaCare and the left expresses outrage and resentment. What about those thousands of waivers the Obama Administration has doled out?


