No Red Tape? Non-Union FEMA Crews, Water and Other Supplies Sit Idle Thanks To Unions & Red Tape

By: LaborUnionReport (Diary)  |  November 12th, 2012 at 02:00 PM

It’s been two weeks since Hurricane Sandy killed 113 people, wiped out portions of towns, and knocked out power to millions. It has also been two weeks since Barack Obama pledged, “No bureaucracy. No red tape.”

However, according to multiple public and private sources, unions and union-related red tape are causing workers from out of state to be turned back, as well as workers contracted by FEMA, as well as tons of supplies, already in New York and New Jersey to sit idle—at a cost of millions to taxpayers.

It has already been well publicized though the Daily Caller how the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers demanded unionization of out-of-state utility workers in order for them to help in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy.

Long Island’s Newsday reported over the weekend that the union’s demands cost New York 125 extra workers to help with restoring electricity to those in the dark.

    Barry Moline, executive director of the Florida Municipal Electric Association, said Long Island could have received 125 additional workers from utilities across Florida as soon as two days after the storm if a dispute about the letters had been resolved sooner. He said most of the crews from Florida who were available were nonunion and refused to join Local 1049 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, even if only temporarily.

    
    Crews that could have come to Long Island went instead to Pennsylvania, Moline said. “We could have been there on Wednesday, and instead we arrived on Sunday,” he said, after the union rescinded the requirement. [Emphasis added.]

It gets worse.

Over the weekend, a source (who wishes to remain anonymous) reported that contractors contracted—as well as, generators, water, and other supplies paid for—by FEMA are being idled at New York’s Floyd Bennett Field by “red tape” requirements, while unions deploy their members and many storm victims sit in the dark.

While there are about 4,000 National Guardsmen at Bennett Field, there are hundreds of out-of-state contractors for FEMA, many of them linemen and electricians, that are not being deployed to help turn power pack on for residents because of the red tape.

On Sunday, out of the 400-500 workers available, according to the source, only three crews went out. Crews, he said, are usually two-man teams.

The union crews, the source stated, are free to come and go as they please, yet the non-union FEMA contractors are being held back because of red tape requirements.

The red-tape bottleneck, he said, comes from the Corps of Engineers. They get work orders in (places that need help), but the work orders don’t come out as they should.

“I’ve never seen anything like it,” the source said over the weekend.

On Sunday night, FEMA contractors put in one generator for a 14-floor building. Just one.

On top of that, there are tons of supplies in trailers,  as well as rows and rows of water that are not being delivered.

Immediately after the storm, beer maker Budweiser converted its beer lines in Georgia to produce water—44,000 cases of water. That water was trucked into the storm ravaged area, but much of it is still sitting as residents in across Brooklyn and in Far Rockaway, Queens continue to boil their water as of Saturday.

According to a November 7 press release by the Defense Logistics Agency, fifty power generators and 150,000 blankets were sent to Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst (a FEMA staging area in central New Jersey) where FEMA-contracted crews are also experiencing red-tape related delays, though not nearly as bad as those at New York’s Bennett Field.

Despite the fact that there is apparently a news blackout—FEMA contractors are not allowed to talk to the press—Americans are shelling out tens of millions in taxpayer dollars for FEMA contractors to be paid while not being allowed to do the jobs they brought in to perform.

So much for the “no red tape, no bureaucracy” that was promised nearly two weeks ago.

________________________

“Turth isn’t mean. It’s truth.”
Andrew Breitbart (1969-2012)




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





    lineholder

    I am genuinely concerned about the Americans who have been impacted by Hurricane Sandy, but I have to say that this is probably one of the best examples of the inefficiency of centralized planning activity we’ve seen in a good while. SOP requires that the “red tape” be addressed before the situation can be resolved, and rather than simply deviate away from SOP in this emergency situation, they’ve adhered to it as if was cast in stone.
    lineholder

    The state of LA (i.e. Katrina victims) are probably the ones taking the most proactive role in trying to provide assistance to the folks in NY.

    Ironic, isn’t it?
    lineholder

    Here’s another example, just different type. Food stamps being cut in Ohio
    http://www.toledoblade.com/State/2012/11/12/Ohioans-food-stamp-aid-to-be-cut.html
    http://www.TerriersOfTheRight.blogspot.com Flagstaff

    Expect more of this. I am inclined to agree with Bill Kristol and some of my friends–Republicans in Congress should start rolling over for Obama, letting him have his almost every wish. Because we were “responsible public servants” and thwarted some of his crazier ideas last term, he got to scream “Republicans blocked everything I tried to do, that’s why things are no better today.” I say let him raise taxes on those making over $1 million incomes, whether it hurts the economy (and it will) or not. When the country goes to heck he won’t be able to say we stopped his great ideas.

    It begins to look like the only way for folks to recognize how bad socialism is is to let them have some, the faster the better. That way, there might still be some of us around who remember how things are supposed to be. If this election proved nothing else it proved that too many eligible voters are like Hush Puppies.




