
5 Insane Catches by the Best Outfielder You May Not Know — But Should
 November 12, 2012 by Fran Berkman


The members of the Baseball Writers Association of America just made the easiest decision they’ve ever made since deciding to watch sports as a career: They named Mike Trout as the 2012 American League “Rookie of the Year.”

Trout had a historic rookie season; and he has become well-known in sports circles. Other than with the fantasy sports crowd and truly engaged baseball fans, however, Trout seems to be flying under the radar — or perhaps swimming under the sonar.

Either way, Trout is an absolute pleasure to watch, and he should be well on his way to becoming a household name at this point. The 21-year-old plays centerfield for the Los Angeles Angels. He finished the season with a .326 batting average, 30 home runs, 129 runs scored, 83 runs batted in and 49 stolen bases in 54 attempts. With a 90% success rate, his stolen base percentage is higher than the current all-time leader, Carlos Beltran, who has a 88% success rate. (Trout will need at least 300 attempted stolen bases to be eligible for this record.)

His runs scored and stolen-base totals were both the league’s best; he was second in the league in batting average, and near the top in a bunch of other categories you might not care much about if you’re not a huge sports fan. Trout even has a chance to be named the league’s “Most Valuable Player” (to be announced Thursday), which has only been done twice previously by rookies in the 80-year history of the award.

Trout’s rookie accomplishments are far better than those of Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays during their debut seasons, and I’ll bet you’ve heard of them. Well, just to make sure you always remember the name — Mike Trout — here are five ridiculous catches the young virtuoso made during the 2012 MLB season:
5. Trout Robs a Prince

Here Trout not only robs Prince Fielder of a home run, but also probably the rights to the last name “Fielder.” This catch ended a game that Trout started with a home run against Justin Verlander, one of the best pitchers in the league. Trout runs off the field grinning — only pausing to strike a pose with Tori Hunter, the former best outfielder in baseball.

4. More Athletic Than the Athletics

Trout doesn’t have to go over the wall to make this catch, but he does motor across the outfield, covering a serious amount of ground. Battling the sun, he feels for the wall with his hand, leaps and hangs onto the ball despite smashing into the fence. The batter, Josh Reddick, might play for the Oakland Athletics, but I think Trout schooled them all on what it means to be an athlete. 

3. This Isn’t as Easy as it Looks

Here’s another catch where Trout goes way over the wall to bring back a definite homer. Most players make catches like this once or twice in their careers, but Trout makes the play look routine with his smooth retreat to the wall and perfectly-timed jump.

2. Bend It Like Beckham

White Sox infielder Gordon Beckham makes a serious bid for his 10th home run of the year, but like many others, he gets “Trouted.” (This is the point in the story where we coin the phrase “Trouted;” I think you know what it means.)

1. An Angel Gets His Wings

You’ll have to forgive the subpar quality of this video. Rumor has it Ken Griffey Jr. and Tori Hunter paid the Internet to try to get rid of it. Actually, I just started that rumor. There probably aren’t any official versions of this clip readily available because MLB wants people to watch this melodramatic commercial that features the catch. Be sure to check out the second instant replay of the catch in the video below. The low camera angle allows you to truly appreciate how high Trout can jump.

Photo courtesy of Keith Allison
