
When Running And CrossFit Collide

by Meghann on November 12, 2012

Happy Monday, everyone!

How was your weekend? Do anything exciting?!

This week marks the end of my first full month of CrossFit (I signed up with a BOGO deal, so I have another month to go with the deal). I promised a full review at the end of the first month but, to be honest, I still feel like a huge newbie around here. The thing with CrossFit is you never know what to expect and every workout is different, so even after a month in, I’m still finding my way around. There are still so many moves/lifts I haven’t tried and goals I haven’t reached – I’m not sure I’ll ever not feel like a newbie.

What I can share is that I do feel stronger and more defined than I did before. My biceps are starting to pop up and my back and shoulder have definitely seen some improvement. I’m also SORE all the time. It takes me two-three days to recover from each workout’s soreness. When I first started I was told the workouts never get easier, but your time for recovery does grow shorter – I’m still waiting got that shorter recovery to kick in!

I plan to post a “Bridal Shape Up” check-in sometime this week coming week. Along with CrossFit I’ve been working on cleaning up my diet (which has totally gone out the window the last week), running, and swimming. I haven’t hit all my workout goals yet, but I’m committed to making them happen.

This morning’s CrossFit workout was one this runner thoroughly enjoyed.

There were no skill focus sets today – we had a long WOD ahead of us and were told to prep our bars for the WOD instead. This was the first (and only) WOD where I’ve felt rushed to put everything together. I’d never done a proper dead lift in CrossFit before, so I spent my time doing a quick 2-minute review on form and technique with our coach.

Instead of building up weight, I made the huge mistake of trying to copy the weight on the bar of the girl next to me. You can probably mark this down as the first time in history where I started off with way too much weight. It didn’t take long to realize that my legs were too tight to stay in proper position with the heavier weights and I quickly discarded most of it. I ended up feeling much more comfortable (but still challenged!) at half the weight I started with. I hope we have a class dedicated to deadlifts (instead of a rushed intro) soon because I’d love to take my time and really see what I could life there.

(my set-up after the workout was finished)

Since I was still scrambling to set my area up when we officially started, I fell a little behind everyone else for the start of the WOD. The WOD was broken up into 7 parts where we did 20 reps of a move (dead lift, pull ups, burpees, etc.), then ran a quick 400m of the parking lot after every set. I’m not sure I realized how much my body was trained to run on tired legs until this workout. The weight sets were tough and challenging, but the run portions were fun and motivating. I would wear myself out on the weights, then take off on the run portions to cool down before the next set. This is where CrossFit and triathlon training collide – with the notion of running/ moving forward on tired legs while fatigued.

I almost felt like I was cheating because I was enjoying the run portion so much – I was totally in my zone during those points. It was thanks to my speed on the runs that I was the first person to call time for the today’s WOD.

I think that time includes a mile and half of running? :)

After I finished the workout, I headed home for breakfast.

A nice bowl of oats was calling my name.

In the mix:

    1/3 cup oats
    1/3 cup water
    1/3 cup milk
    chia seeds
    raisins
    vanilla whey protein powder
    cinnamon

On top:

    pear
    pecans
    almond butter

My planned lunch for today included tofu and salad, but I was really craving eggs and bacon. Eggs and bacon for the win!

Two scrambled eggs with spinach on top of 1/2 a pretzel bun.

A side of bacon and green beans.

Sometimes it’s best to just go with your gut (and cravings!) ;)

We’re doing a Thanksgiving-themed potluck for tonight’s book club meeting and I signed up under the “potato” category. Any ideas on what to bring?



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Natalie @ Free Range Human November 12, 2012 at 3:57 pm

    Well, you have to do sweet potato casserole, of course! No Thanksgiving is complete without it :)

    
2 Chelsie @ Balance, Not Scale November 12, 2012 at 4:00 pm

    I love the idea of tossing cardio in the middle of weight sets!! It breaks things up to give you a mental break, and keeps your heart rate up. I find that when I do that, it keeps my spirits lifted and my mind engaged.
    As always, your meals look delectable. :)
    Chelsie @ Balance, Not Scale recently posted..MIMM — Just an ordinary day

    
3 Becky @ runfundone November 12, 2012 at 4:10 pm

    Crossfit sounds so fun!
    Becky @ runfundone recently posted..Can’t Hold Us Down!

    
4 Courtney @ Journey of a Dreamer November 12, 2012 at 4:13 pm

    That looks like a fun WOD! Deadlifts are awesome, they make me feel strong. My tip is to squeeze your butt cheeks together and dig in your heels!
    Courtney @ Journey of a Dreamer recently posted..Weekly Workout Recap

    
5 Sam @ Better With Sprinkles November 12, 2012 at 4:48 pm

    sweet potato casserole is always a favourite! (really, I just look for an excuse to tell people to eat sweet potatoes. In general, they are fantastic).
    Sam @ Better With Sprinkles recently posted..Scolding Hot Gravy.

    
6 kelly November 12, 2012 at 4:59 pm

    I would just do regular sweet potatoes. You can put them in the oven for an hour and you are done. Easy!

    
7 Katie @ Peace Love & Oats November 12, 2012 at 5:03 pm

    I hope I can find a deal on crossfit soon, I’m DYING to try it! And as for potatoes, there’s always the sweet potato casserole, or my mom makes a potato casserole with hash-brown potatoes, or at thanksgiving last year my cousin did roasted root-vegetables, which included potatoes, parsnips, carrots and beets. It was reeeeally good.
    Katie @ Peace Love & Oats recently posted..BBC–Week 3

    
8 Priscilla P November 12, 2012 at 5:04 pm

    That breakfast looks amazing!
    Priscilla P recently posted..What I would wear with: Michael Kors rose-gold watch

    
9 Rachel (Two Healthy Plates) November 12, 2012 at 5:24 pm

    Something sweet potato for sure – it’s not thanksgiving if you don’t have sweet potatoes!!!
    Rachel (Two Healthy Plates) recently posted..Asian Chicken Lettuce Wraps

    
10 Megan November 12, 2012 at 5:29 pm

    ugh this looks like a tough one!! I HATE running so anytime I see 400m on the board I cringe! Deadlifts are one of my favorite lifts.. hope you get a skill workout dedicated to them soon! great job!

    
11 Lindsay November 12, 2012 at 5:49 pm

    I’d say mashed sweet potatoes. You can have some sweet and savory toppings for them.
    Lindsay recently posted..Soft Pretzels

    
12 Sarah W. November 12, 2012 at 6:49 pm

    hahaha…I saw this posted for today’s workout at my box too! Fortunately…I had scheduled my third intro session with the coach so I didn’t have to suffer through that one. It looked killer – all the people looked like they wanted to die. My coach joked that he was stalling so I could start the next workout with the rest of them.

    I’m guessing you didnt have to scale the workout down any? If I had done it, I think they would have needed to scale it for me since it would have been my SECOND official crossfit WOD. lol. tomorrow we focus on strength so it’ll be an easy day….which is fine because my coach worked me to the bone today – I did a bear complex for my WOD, and before that we worked on cleans, snatch, etc….and overhead squat movements, but not the complete squat b/c my shoulders are too tight – so we did a bunch of exercises trying to loosen my shoulders. I already feel super duper sore.

    pray I get bench press and deadlifts tomorrow, my back can’t take another beating.

    

    13 MealsAndMiles November 12, 2012 at 10:28 pm

        I had to scale back on weight. Was definitely not RXing this one. :-) and I used a band with the pull ups.

        

14 Sneakers2Sandals November 12, 2012 at 7:32 pm

    I LOVE run days at Crossfit! I am always one of the fastest on those days and it makes me happy. Crossfit has made me so much faster because I feel so motivated. Love.

    
15 Charlie (The Runner Beans) November 13, 2012 at 4:35 am

    You are totally not a newbie anymore if you finished the WOD first!! I wish they would open up more Crossfit gyms in London, I want to try it!
    Charlie (The Runner Beans) recently posted..Movember 5K

    
16 Emily N November 13, 2012 at 9:59 am

    Congrats on being first! I love CF workouts that include running. it’s like sweet relief!
    Emily N recently posted..Hitting a Busy Week

    

