Tuesday, November 13, 2012
Best Pumpkin Pie Ever – Come for the Pie, Stay for the Dollop 

This Thanksgiving, we’re assuming your turkey will be juicy; your mashed potatoes lump-free; and your gravy, smooth as silk. You are a regular visitor here, after all. 

However, it’s probably not a bad idea to hedge your bets and serve a pumpkin pie so tasty and texturally perfect that no matter what goes wrong, everyone will leave with a smile on their face, and a delicious memory in their heart. By the way, this is that pie. 

After many years of experimentation, I’ve finally perfected what I think is the ideal formula. As I mention in the video, I’ve removed an egg white, and replaced it with some additional yolks. This results in a pie that’s not only richer, but also much less likely to crack.

Of course, you still need to not to overcook it. An extra 5 minutes in the oven is kryptonite to even the most brilliant pumpkin pie formulas. Use the knife test I demonstrated and you should be fine. Worst case, there’s always the whipped cream. Ah, the whipped cream.

I remember my friend, and world-famous photographer, Andrew Scrivani telling me about a food stylist whose spoon work is so sexy and enticing that she makes a good living just specializing in dollops. Well, I’d like to take this opportunity to apologize for ruining her career.

Once the world sees the slow-mo magic that is the old, “twist, three-thrusts, and a pull,” I’m assuming she’ll be out of business in no time. That’s right, now anyone will be able to do magazine-quality dollops like a boss (and by boss, I mean overpaid food stylist).

Anyway, ruined careers aside, this really is a fantastic, and incredibly easy pumpkin pie recipe, and I sincerely hope you consider adding it to your holiday menu this year. Enjoy!


Ingredients for one pumpkin pie:
1 can (15 ounce) pumpkin
1 large egg
3 egg yolks
1 can (14 ounce) sweetened condensed milk
1/4 teaspoon freshly, and very finely ground nutmeg
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 tsp Chinese 5-spice (or to sub: a small pinch each of ground star anise, ground cloves, and ground white pepper)
1/2 teaspoon fine salt
