Friday, November 9, 2012
White Bean & Chicken Breast Chili – A Change of Pace, Change of Pace 

I love a hearty beef chili as much as the next guy, but once in a while there’s nothing wrong with going over to the light side, and enjoying an equally comforting bowl of white bean and chicken chili. I’ve always used thighs for my chicken chili, which of course have more fat and flavor, but after a bunch of requests for a chicken breast version, I decided give it a go, and I was very happy with the results.

The key is to not overcook the chicken when you sear it. You want it slightly undercooked, maybe about 150 degrees F. internal temp, since it will cook all the way when we add it back in. You’ll notice when I slice mine, there’s a little bit of opaqueness to the flesh, which is what you want.

This is intended to be a relatively quick and simple weeknight meal, so I didn’t add much in the way of extras, but things like peppers, squash, and mushrooms are always welcomed additions. 

I know you’re probably missing those long, warm summer days right about now, but one of the great things about this season’s cold, wet weather is that it begs for recipes like this. I hope you pour yourself a beer, grab a chunk of bread, and dig into a bowl of this soon. Enjoy! 

Ingredients for 4 portions:
2 tsp vegetable oil
2 or 3 boneless skinless chicken breasts, about 1 1/4 lbs
salt and pepper to taste
1 large onion
4 cloves garlic
1 tbsp ancho chili powder
1 tsp cumin
1/2 tsp chipotle chili powder
1/4 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp flour
about 3 cups chicken broth or stock, divided
1 tsp fine cornmeal
2 cans (15oz) white beans
cayenne to taste
1/4 tsp sugar or to taste
1/3 cup chopped green onions
sour cream and cilantro to garnish


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Paul Titov said...

    you forgot the beans.
    November 9, 2012 4:29 PM 
Food Junkie said...

    This sounds very good. I really like chipotles in adobo sauce in chili for bolder flavour kick than the powder.

    BTW The beans got missed in your ingredients list.
    November 9, 2012 5:20 PM 
Chef John said...

    Thanks!
    November 9, 2012 5:44 PM 
Chris K. said...

    I may not roll
    Like a Big Willy
    But all the young fillies
    Get mad silly
    When they eat a bowl
    Of my chicken chili!
    November 9, 2012 6:56 PM 
Zeevik said...

    Well - what can I say...?
    As always, so simple, so clear, so...
    delicious!
    Chef John, you are my number 1!
    Well done - from ISRAEL
    November 9, 2012 8:35 PM 
Daniel Bottoms said...

    this was spectacular! I had NO idea what to cook for lunch today and my wife and I were totally exhausted from the night, as our 10 month old baby cried every two hours!!! I saw this and said BINGO! My wife only got small breasts (no jokes plz!) so she grabbed a few chicken quarters, which i skinned and de-boned myself. a bit of work, but i used the scraps to make a bit of stock, some of which came into the chili.

    I can not confirm, nor deny that i added a bit of bacon to the sweating onions and i used flat-leaf parsley instead of cilantro (couldn't get any at the market). Even my picky 7 year old daughter enjoyed this.

    btw i added a stalk of celery as i had it from earlier in the week and needed to be used. totally worked.

    cheers from Austria,
    Daniel
    November 10, 2012 7:39 AM 
dana said...

    Looks good. I make my chicken chili with white and black beans, just for the color contrast. Or white and red. A great meal any way you do it.

    And try it as a burrito stuffing, for a hearty change on a cold day.
    November 10, 2012 10:37 AM 
Lisette said...

    It was really good! Used carrots and celery with the onion and added extra vegetables, but this is a really tasty use of chicken breasts!

    Lisette, the Netherlands
    November 13, 2012 6:49 AM 


