Thursday, November 8, 2012
Warming Up with Beef Merlot 

The weather just turned cold and wet here in San Francisco, and when that happens I always crave something hot and comforting, ladled from a steaming pot. I do have a brand new video to post for Friday that fits the bill nicely, but due to circumstances beyond my control, it will not be up until late in the day. 

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy this video recipe for beef merlot that I posted a few years ago. It’s an easy take-off on beef bourguignon, and one of my all-time, cold-weather favorites. Be sure to read the original post here, to find out why the heck I used merlot. Enjoy!



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Chibby said...

    Hey,maybe you can settle a situation for me CJ.I mentioned,in passing,to my mother-in-law that I used some Yellowtail(the Aussie brand) for this and your Uncle's Darduini Chicken recipe and she nearly hit the floor.She couldn't believe I'd use Yellowtail for cooking wine.She mentioned she had some cheaper stuff downstairs she uses.Is Yellowtail really that prestigious?I don't find it to be expensive or over the top spectacular.
    November 9, 2012 11:46 AM 
S/V Blondie-Dog said...

    Hi Chef,

    I kinda, sorta made this same dish the other day but did trick it up a bit.

    Instead I added some tomato sauce, loads of garlic, a smidgen of apple cider vinegar, a packet of sodium laden Sazon Goya with culantro and achiote, sofrito and a boatload of green olives and capers served over steamed rice.

    Even my finicky lady-friend thought it was delicious.

    And I'll also have ya know that I elected to drink my bottle of merlot rather than cook with it. I'm just saying. :)
    November 9, 2012 11:58 AM 
Chef John said...

    Im with you! Thats a fine table wine and great for cooking.
    November 9, 2012 12:02 PM 
matia mallia said...

    Chef John I am a big admirer and I owe you all the happiness and warmth in y kitchen (sorry mum) .I wanted to ask ...what is the difference with white and red onions? you seem to use white ones all the time.
    November 10, 2012 4:31 AM 
Chef John said...

    just a different color! same uses!
    November 10, 2012 10:50 AM 
Craig Widdison said...

    In a dry county, hard to find real wine. What is wrong with cooking wine? Love you blog.
    November 10, 2012 3:39 PM 
Chef John said...

    Besides that it's terrible tasting and loaded with salt, it's fine.

    BTW, a dry county? Where's that? You need to consider moving into the 21st century. ;)
    November 10, 2012 4:25 PM 
