Learning on Steroids is Now Open

Learning on Steroids is a program I’ve been building over the last three years, designed to give you access to the best ideas in productivity and learning faster. These are the methods I used during my MIT Challenge, and have been shaped and improved upon by thousands of members having been through the program already.

The last time I held open registration was in September of 2011, and I don’t know when I’ll be opening it again next. If you’re curious about the program, or want to sign-up, check out the information page here.

Registration will only be open for 7 days, after that I’m closing it down until next year.

Answers to Some Common Questions

Q) What’s in the program?

The program is monthly, but I’ve designed it so you get a lot of ideas right as soon as you sign up. This includes PDF and HD video guides explaining the most useful learning and productivity tactics (as well as tutorial walkthroughs so you can implement them yourself), audio interviews with author Cal Newport and language-expert Benny Lewis as well as weekly ass-kicking emails.

Additionally, you’ll have access to a live one-hour online workshop (or a recording, if you can’t attend) where I’ll answer individual questions and give more advanced lessons. You can also access recordings of past live workshops and material from past bootcamps I haven’t archived publicly.

Q) How much does it cost?

$14.

I’ve tried to make it as affordable as possible for students. The subscription is billed monthly, but you get a lot of useful ideas upfront, so you don’t need to commit to extra months.

Q) How long does it last?

There are twelve months of content, but there’s no commitment needed. Many members have made huge changes in just the first months. Additionally, once you’re a member, you can always get instant access to all of the months’ content at a discount.

Q) I already have one of your books, how is this different?

The content of the bootcamp is separate from any of my books. The philosophy covered is similar to Learn More, Study Less, but it’s a much newer program, so I’ve expanded it with considerably more new methods, as well as more detailed walkthroughs to help you master familiar methods. That said, the program is still me, so the ideas I share on this blog and my books have a consistent style and theme.

Q) How much time does it take?

I’ve built the program to take as little time commitment as possible. Many members have reported significant time savings early on, so the program actually gives back extra time for a significant fraction of members. Where possible I’ve also tried to integrate the methods into your work and studies directly, so you’ll be practicing the methods while making progress in your studies.

If you feel particularly busy or pressed for time, I still think the program can be a good choice. The content is concise and action-oriented, so you should be able to start saving more time through better habits quickly.

Q) What if I’m not sure?

I completely understand a bit of hesitation, especially since there’s almost no program out there that works quite like this. That’s why the program is risk-free for 60 days. Ninety-nine percent of our members keep the program, but if it doesn’t work out, I can give you a full refund. No worries!

Q) Does it work?

These idea have all been field-tested by myself extensively both when I sustained an honors GPA in university (graduating with highest marks in my chosen major), and also when I was working through the MIT Challenge. In addition to rigorous self-testing, the program has already had thousands of members from which I’ve tweaked the advice so that I can ensure it can fit the needs of learners of different ability and background.

Here’s some of the feedback I’ve received from past members:

“I read your guide at the beginning of Y11; It was inspirational so I spent weeks devising methods of applying the content. There is no doubt in my mind that it has paid off. For example:

    Achieving the top 0.5% in my state, Victoria, for Mathematical Methods.
    I am never worried that I will forget something for exams.
    Studying for exams and tests has become much less stressful.”

- Jefferson T.

“I would like to thank you VERY much for your work; your program has helped and continues to help me immensely! One little advice helped me the most: quantity over quality at the beginning, start small and don’t try to be perfect at first. I applied that mindset especially to metaphors and the 5-y-method – with great results.”

- Hans M.

“Your advice has benefited me greatly in increasing my productivity.”

- Revanth Y.

“I have loved using your services over almost a year now, … I have taken away many skills such as speed reading and I have abolished rote-review/memorization from my study tactics. I will keep on reading your blog and advocating this program and your blog to my friends and community”

- Mark T.

“My results:

    I was able to pull straight 90′s in hard classes such as Calculus II and Discrete Mathematics.
    I have been able to get an 82 in my last Calculus Exam with NO studying at all.
    I schedule time to other commitments such as a Science Fair competition, and I recently got 4 prizes in total, including an Engineering and Computer Science scholarship for $2500.”

- Santiago P.

“I was a C student in college. … I know this sounds really corny, but learning actually became fun once I opened myself up to new ways to learn. My mind was always in a flow state now when I was learning, instead of looking at the clock and falling asleep. [My financial planning certification exam] has about a 50% pass rate and I have known some very smart people who have had to take it twice. It’s one of the biggest accomplishments in my career has been passing the exam.”

- R.J.

“The term is over, and just thought I’d let you know that my mid-semester total average is 94.3%. It’s a massive increase from my grade before I started using the techniques, and also came with a lot less effort.”

- Elle Y.

“I mentioned in my first post that I wasn’t doing so well in Chemistry, because on the first test I scored a 57. I failed, and I was in a panic.

[After Learning on Steroids,] I took the exam with a bit more confidence and got my grades back with an 86. It may not seem like a huge improvement, but the class average was a failing grade. Another thing to note is that I just did not simply catch up with my class, I finished the entire curriculum for the semester.”

- Nayamot U.

————

There’s no risk to trying it out, but since registration closes on November 7th, there is a big risk that I won’t open the program again soon.

Sign up here: http://www.scotthyoung.com/learnonsteroids/

