Free Learn Faster Bootcamp (Starts Tomorrow)

I enjoy writing articles, but what I really like is when people take action and use the ideas. Starting tomorrow I’m putting on a one-week free bootcamp designed to teach you the skills to be more productive and learn faster. Every day I’ll send out a new idea as well as a quick action step so you can build momentum with new habits.

Once the week is over, I’ll reopen Learning on Steroids, and continue with a select group. I haven’t had a new opening of Learning on Steroids for over a year now, and I don’t know when I’ll do it next. If you’ve been interested in building better habits, this is your chance.

The bootcamp will only be delivered to people on my free newsletter, however. I’m not posting the content to this blog or to RSS. It’s completely free, and you can easily unsubscribe, so if you’re not currently on the email list sign up here. If you’re not sure whether you’re enrolled, you can enter your email address anyways (it won’t double subscribe you, if you already are subscribed).

Here’s a brief outline of a few of the ideas I’m going to share for free over the next seven days:

    The exact time management system I used to complete the MIT Challenge
    How to get through hundreds of pages of reading, without losing focus
    Which note-taking technique you should use (and which common one you should never use)
    The technique to boost your memory, so you remember content years after the class was taught
    How to always have confidence before taking any exam

Again this is completely FREE, but only to people on the email list.

I’ll try to send links to the previous days’ content, in case you’re late by a day or two, but otherwise I won’t be archiving the bootcamp publicly. That means if you miss it, it’s gone.


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



George Millo says:	
October 24, 2012 at 3:11 am	

Thanks, looking forward to it!
sarah says:	
October 24, 2012 at 5:14 am	

Thank you Scott. This bootcamp come right on time. I’m laser focused now to reach my goal. I picked up a second job to get myself out of debt and 4 university class so i can finosh my bachelor degree to become a financial planer. Your MIT challenge was a huge inspiration and can’t wait to start your bootcamp. Thank you for sharing this with us.
Raymundo Valdez says:	
October 24, 2012 at 8:44 am	

Thanks Scott. I’m very interested.
Moots says:	
October 24, 2012 at 11:16 am	

It looks interesting. But what’s the difference between your ebook “Learn more, study less” and “Learning on steroids”?
charlie says:	
October 24, 2012 at 12:52 pm	

Yes yes yes! Please do that!!! Really love to learn about your note taking skill!! Thanks a lot Scott!
Scott Young says:	
October 24, 2012 at 2:33 pm	

Moots,

Learn More, Study Less is a book (and also a course), Learning on Steroids is a subscription with new content each month and emails every week. Some of the ideas overlap, but the format is different so you can take action on the ideas.
Peterandrewfaber says:	
October 24, 2012 at 9:35 pm	

I will definately stay updated on this. Thanks!
Filip Book says:	
October 25, 2012 at 6:10 am	

Will also stay updated on this, thanks Scott :)
Alex says:	
October 25, 2012 at 8:51 am	

Hey Scott,
We at Fair Shake would love to add some of your frustration tips to a prisoner reentry guide. I’m trying to contact you via email but I fear I may have been sorted into spam because I attached two documents. The two documents are what your content would look like in our packet and a permission request form. If you are interested please contact me, I too will keep reviewing this blog to see if you respond. Thank you for your time!
Day 1: Double your output (while working fewer hours) « Scott H Young says:	
October 26, 2012 at 2:09 am	

[...] a personal copy, make sure you print one off! If you want to get the rest of the bootcamp emails, sign up here for free. In this email I’m going to share a trick I’ve used to double the work I’ve [...]
Deepti says:	
October 26, 2012 at 8:09 am	

I ‘m looking forward for it!
teng chong says:	
October 28, 2012 at 3:29 am	

i need it!
Bob says:	
October 28, 2012 at 8:04 am	

Thanks so much! Scott.
These guidances will be really helpful.

Looking forward to it. :)
Wesley says:	
October 28, 2012 at 3:27 pm	

Just signed up, looking forward to the boot camp.
Young says:	
October 30, 2012 at 6:45 am	

I really appreciate your help! Thanks!
Anthony Milton says:	
October 31, 2012 at 9:34 am	

Just checked in.
Day 1: Double your output (while working fewer hours) | The Last Light says:	
October 31, 2012 at 9:21 pm	

[...] Day 1: Double your output (while working fewer hours) Leave a reply Note: this page is intended only for people who missed this email in the bootcamp. As such, I’ll be taking it down after the bootcamp is finished, so if you want a personal copy, make sure you print one off! If you want to get the rest of the bootcamp emails, sign up here for free. [...]
Day 2: The trick to remember things years after they were taught | The Last Light says:	
October 31, 2012 at 9:26 pm	

[...] Day 2: The trick to remember things years after they were taught Leave a reply Note: this page is intended only for people who missed this email in the bootcamp. As such, I’ll be taking it down after the bootcamp is finished, so if you want a personal copy, make sure you print one off! If you want to get the rest of the bootcamp emails, sign up here for free. [...]
Day 3: How to take notes (and which common technique you should never use) | The Last Light says:	
October 31, 2012 at 9:30 pm	

[...] Day 3: How to take notes (and which common technique you should never use) Leave a reply Note: this page is intended only for people who missed this email in the bootcamp. As such, I’ll be taking it down after the bootcamp is finished, so if you want a personal copy, make sure you print one off! If you want to get the rest of the bootcamp emails, sign up here for free. [...]
Day 4: Master new skills quickly and avoid the #1 pitfall which wastes your time | The Last Light says:	
October 31, 2012 at 9:32 pm	

[...] Day 4: Master new skills quickly and avoid the #1 pitfall which wastes your time Leave a reply Note: this page is intended only for people who missed this email in the bootcamp. As such, I’ll be taking it down after the bootcamp is finished, so if you want a personal copy, make sure you print one off! If you want to get the rest of the bootcamp emails, sign up here for free. [...]
