Pumpkin & Flax Seed Good-Dog Treats

by White on Rice Couple on November 4, 2012

This was a post which almost didn’t get written. You see, I’ve started to get a bit self conscious about over sharing. Not in that creepy “I feel the need to let everyone know what sort of bathroom rituals I have or funky positions we just tried” kind of over sharing. I’ll leave those to the uninhibited TMI peeps.

I’m talking about not wanting to be one of those who are so overly obsessed that they have to tell, and show, and tweet, and facebook every single detail of their new cat/kid/grandkid/puppy. Now if you are talking about a puppy, feel free to inundate us with your lore, I can nearly guarantee we’ll be rapturous listeners. However I don’t want to make that assumption towards everyone else. You know what they say about assumptions.

So count this as a fair warning given, this is about to become a puppy-centric post and I may be slightly fanatical about our two. Those who follow my Instagram will know, being that  my IG MO is basically puppy pics and travel moments (the former dominating lately.)

With that cleared out of the air, if you are still reading you are either: A: Cool with the dog sharing. B: A glutton for punishment. or C: Skimming over the text to look for pretty pictures and a recipe. Any of those makes you fair game for my puppy swooning.

As most of you know, we have ourselves a new addition to the WORC household, our Rhodesian Ridgeback puppy Lexi. Although it is getting harder and harder to call her a puppy.

A few of Todd’s IG iphone Shots

In a mere couple months she’s gone from this tiny little thing we could pick up in one hand to the size of  calf which needs to be bear-hugged in order to pick her up (which I still do – but Diane can’t. Freaks Lexi out ’cause she thinks momma is gonna drop her.) Seriously. She is almost as tall and long as Sierra, although she is only about half the width.

Lexi is at that goofball puppy teenager stage. Her body is becoming athletic and strong with occasional moments of pure clumsiness. Like yesterday when she came racing into the house, couldn’t make the turn and slid 10 feet right into the water bowls.

Distinctive Ridgeback and hound traits are emerging, warming reminding us of Dante, our previous Ridgeback. First time we took her into the vet, in a rising curious voice, he asks “So why a Ridgeback?” thinking we may not be knowing what we were in for. But with a twinkle we reminded him that our first pup was a ridgie.  We know their potential for trouble and love it.

“What are some of these traits?” you may so curiously ask.

For one, Ridgebacks tend to be quite clean, even though they usually hate water. She is a very clean puppy, making potty training fairly quick and painless. She has already learned how to ring the bell to let us know she wants to go outside if the door is closed. But if the lawn is wet, you can guarantee she’ll walk the long way around on the pathways.

Instagrammed Shot – Puppies! Attention!

Instagrammed shot – Asian Pear was this little Sugar Foot’s morning snack!

There is also a distinctive knack for independent stubbornness. Point your finger at her and command “No” and she’ll just look at you with a glimmer, then nibble on your finger. Our shoes and socks are regularly found strewn about the house and garden. But 9 out of 10 times it is only the right shoe. Don’t ask us why or how she knows. It is just her preference.

And then there is the super obsessiveness over food. She loves food. I mean really, really loves food. Every meal when when kibble bowls are being walked outside, she will race ahead doing one victory lap. Then after she reaches the front of the food bearer, she will sproing (a ridgeback thing of jumping straight up in the air, all paws staying more or less level with one another), rotating herself in mid-air until she is front and center of the food. And since she knows the rule of no eating till everyone is sitting, when she lands it will be directly into a sit, ready for food service.

After meals there will be at least another 30 minutes of roaming the garden, looking for other goodies to snack on. Right now it is the persimmons.

So with such a independent minded, smart, food focused dog, it is time to build up on the training treats. Much cheaper than the store bought ones, and the pups seem to love them more, I will bake up big batches at a time. And with all the pie pumpkins in the stores, pumpkin flax dog biscuits seemed like the perfect fall training treat.

-Todd

Instagrammed Shot – Our pupppy pumpkins. At least we didn’t make them wear costumes. This year.

Pumpkin Flaxseed Dog Biscuits

Total Time: 1 hour
Ingredients:

    2 cups (@ 1 pound or 455g) Pumpkin Puree *see Notes
    1/4 cup (55g) packed Brown Sugar
    3 Eggs
    1/3 cup (80ml) Vegetable Oil
    1/2 cup (120ml) Water
    1/2 cup (85g) Flax Seeds
    3 1/2 cups (440g) all-purpose Flour
    3 1/2 cups (420g) Whole Wheat Flour

Directions:

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line 3 sheet pans with parchment paper.

    Mix together pumpkin puree and sugar. Add in eggs. Mix in oil and water until incorporated.
    Stir flax seeds into batter, then mix in flours. Dough should be fairly stiff.
    Roll out dough to about 3/8" thick. Cut into desired shapes (for a quick stick shape, cut strips using a fluted pasta cutter). Place treats on lined sheet pans.
    Bake for about 40 minutes or until light golden and fairly hard (they will harden a bit more when cooled). Set aside to cool and liberally pass out to deserving puppies.

Recipe Notes:

To make pumpkin puree, roast a pie pumpkin on a sheet pan at 375°F for about 1 hour or until soft when sides are pressed. Allow to cool, then split, scoop out seeds and remove flesh from skin. Puree flesh and store in an airtight container in the fridge.
Recipe Source: WhiteOnRiceCouple.com.
Hello! All images & content are copyright protected. Please do not use our images without prior permission. If you want to republish this recipe, please re-write the recipe in your own words, or simply link back to this post for the recipe. Thank you.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Emily November 4, 2012 at 9:41 pm

    We are fairly new dog owners. Never thought I’d love a four-legged creature as much as I do our Coco (a Pomeranian, Yorkie, poodle mix). Totally pinned this so we can bake her up some goodies for under the Christmas tree.

    
2 Cynthia A. November 5, 2012 at 7:28 am

    Wow, the pumpkin flaxseed biscuit recipe looks so good I might be tempted to eat one myself!

    
3 Angie @ Big Bears Wife November 5, 2012 at 7:36 am

    Thanks for the recipes, I’m sure that our puppies will love these! Love the pictures of the “babies” Ours are not quite as big as your pups haha, but you’re doggies are quite adorable,.

    
4 Tina November 5, 2012 at 8:33 am

    LOVE the dog sharing! This post made me laugh out loud as we have a boxer who happens to do many of the same things little Lexi does, namely the sproing! Love it! Thanks for sharing this recipe as well :)

    
5 Pam November 5, 2012 at 9:02 am

    Total rubbish! (that any of your reader’s would think you’re creepy or over-obsessed!) LOVE your pictures of Lexi and Sierra and thank you for this great recipe, or I should say Sophie (my standard poodle) thanks you. Pam

    
6 JulieD November 5, 2012 at 9:12 am

    I love love this, Todd! I used to make dog treats every year and give them out to co-workers with dogs. I was just telling Curtis the other day that I need to do it again this year. :D I love you sharing pictures of Lexi and Sierra on instagram. #pleasedontstop

    
7 susan November 5, 2012 at 9:21 am

    Such cute dogs. Such cute treats. I just made Lola a batch of treats for her 1 year bday and not only did she love them – but her friends did as well. You are good parents!

    
8 Meegs November 5, 2012 at 11:23 am

    These look good. Would it be possible to do with all whole wheat flour? And/or with less sugar?

    

    9 White on Rice Couple November 5, 2012 at 2:14 pm

        Sure. If doing just whole wheat flour, I would start with cutting back the amount by about 1/2 cup, then slowly incorporate more if needed. I would think it would be fine without the sugar too. We add it ’cause our boxer sometimes gets a weird head shaking thing and it is thought to be caused from low blood sugar so we use the treats as a way to give her a little bit of sugar. If you try them with the changes we’d love to hear how it turns out.
        T

        

10 Georgia @ The Comfort of Cooking November 5, 2012 at 2:10 pm

    I love making homemade dog biscuits and these look so perfect! Your pups are adorable!

    
11 Stefanie @ Sarcastic Cooking November 5, 2012 at 3:28 pm

    I always feel weird about posting too many dog pictures too. So, I know what you mean. I love these little treats, they will be perfect size for my pug! Great pumpkins!

    
12 Leah November 5, 2012 at 6:24 pm

    As a fellow dog person I love the doggie pictures and stories. It seems there are so many blogs where people are happily embracing their own parenthood in blog form that it’s nice to find a blog with people who share my love of the pooch, photography, and food. I am careful when I find myself about to compare my dog to their kid. “Oh, Gus does that all the time”, doesn’t go over too well. Can’t wait to try these.

    
13 Shut Up & Cook | The Attainable Gourmet November 5, 2012 at 8:10 pm

    Rule #1 – There is no such thing as too many puppy stories.
    #2 – These treats look fabulous.
    #3 – Ther is no such thing as too many puppy pictures.
    #4 – I am totally making these for my dog.
    #5 – Love this!

    
14 Elain Ponce De Leon November 6, 2012 at 11:09 am

    Living in an apartment with 3 kiddies, we don’t have room for a dog but lucky for us, our neighbor has a brindle colored Frenchie named Bosco. When my neighbor is at work, we “babysit” and I am enjoying watching my kiddies grow up with a dog in their lives. I bake treats for him sporadically and this is definitely a recipe that I will use to bake him goodies.

    
15 Christine November 6, 2012 at 4:36 pm

    Dog pics are fine any time…love them! Such cuties. Thanks for the recipe, was just thinking of making some treats for Blue!

    
16 cindy November 7, 2012 at 7:21 am

    My husband and I are just as insanely in-love with our pups–who are no longer pups, but whatever. We taught our larger dog, Jezebel, to open the lever-handled door herself, but our Chihuahua mix, Luxe, has no hope for reaching it… I love that you have a bell on your door for Lexi and Sierra.

    
17 alexandra @ sweet betweens [blog] November 7, 2012 at 7:27 am

    please please puhleeeease capture Lexi’s sproing on video and share?

    I’ve recently gotten in the habit of making our two pups [Rosey the chow/pit and Ramble the Boston TerrOR] homemade treats. Feel better knowing what’s in them and that it’s all under my control. So these? These will be next, once we finish the most recent batch of bacon goodies I made.

    thanks for continuing to share glimpses of yours + Diane’s lives on your blog. you both continue to be such a great source of inspiration and motivation!

    
18 Destiney Yates November 9, 2012 at 7:31 am

    OHHH i love pumpkin recipes i have about 5 pumpkins worth of puree in my freezer. Now i have something to do with them! Our doggie loves treats… maybe a little to much since she is just over the puppy stage she is starting to pack on a few extra pounds.

    
19 Greta November 12, 2012 at 5:52 am

    Seeing the pics of Lexi makes me wish for another Ridgeback! I loved mine and they were such good family dogs! I will have to try out the treats for my present pups.

    
