
Nintendo Download Highlights New Digital Content for Nintendo Systems - November 8, 2012

2012-11-08

This week's Nintendo Download includes the following featured content:

Nintendo eShop

Paper Mario™: Sticker Star – When an accident scatters stickers across the land, Mario™ sets off on an adventure to repair a torn world. Searching Forests, Deserts and Mountains, Mario collects stickers to solve puzzles and battle monsters. Flatten characters, roll out towns and walk through living, breathing dioramas. Paper Mario: Sticker Star will be available at retail stores and in the Nintendo eShop on Nov. 11. (For Nintendo 3DS™)

Pokédex™ 3D Pro – The Pokédex 3D Pro application is an upgraded version of the original Pokédex 3D application, exclusively available in the Nintendo eShop for $14.99. It includes detailed information about more than 640 Pokémon from the Pokémon video game series. The Pokédex 3D Pro application also includes in-depth sorting, comparison and ranking tools, as well as comprehensive details about the moves each Pokémon can learn, and how and when each Pokémon evolves. (For Nintendo 3DS)

Disney Epic Mickey: Power of Illusion (Demo Version) – Master the Power of Illusion! Players will take on the role of Mickey Mouse as he uses his brush to wield paint and thinner to save the Toons. Download the demo now in the Nintendo eShop. (For Nintendo 3DS)

Nintendo Video

The 2012 Presidential Games – Tired of the same old election coverage? Then don't miss our special report on the race. Presidential candidates compete for your vote in 3D, only on Nintendo Video. (For Nintendo 3DS)

Also new this week:

Johnny Hotshot™ (Nintendo eShop)

Dress To Play: Cute Witches! (Nintendo eShop)

Come On! Dragons (Nintendo eShop/Nintendo DSiWare)

Smart Girl’s Playhouse® Mini (Nintendo eShop/Nintendo DSiWare™)

SENGOKU 2 (Virtual Console™ for Wii™)

In addition to video games available at retail stores, Nintendo also offers a variety of content that people can download directly to their systems. Nintendo adds new titles to the Nintendo eShop for the Nintendo 3DS™ system, to the Nintendo DSi™ Shop for the Nintendo DSi system and to the Wii™ Shop Channel for the Wii console at 9 a.m. Pacific time on Thursdays.

The Nintendo eShop is a cash-based service and features games, applications and videos in both 2D and 3D. Users can add money to their virtual wallets using a credit card or by purchasing a Nintendo 3DS Prepaid Card at a retail store and entering the code from the card.

The Wii Shop Channel offers games and applications and uses Wii Points™, which can be purchased via the Wii Shop Channel. The Nintendo DSi Shop offers games and applications and uses Nintendo DSi Points™, which can be purchased in the Nintendo DSi Shop. A Wii Points Card™ and Nintendo DSi Points Card™ can be purchased at retail locations. All points from one card must be redeemed in either the Wii Shop Channel or the Nintendo DSi Shop, respectively. They are not transferable and cannot be divided between the two systems.

Remember that Wii, Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo DSi feature parental controls that let adults manage some of the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/wii, http://www.nintendo.com/3ds or http://www.nintendo.com/ds.

