
Nintendo Download Highlights New Digital Content for Nintendo Systems - November 1, 2012

2012-11-01

This week's Nintendo Download includes the following featured content:

Nintendo eShop

Freakyforms Deluxe: Your Creations, Alive! – Create wacky creatures called "formees" and bring them to life on your Nintendo 3DS system to populate your very own planet. Choose from more than 600 different forms to complete your creation. The choices you make will determine what abilities your formee will have and how it will move around the world. Freakyforms Deluxe: Your Creations, Alive! will be available at retail stores and in the Nintendo eShop on Nov. 5. (For Nintendo 3DS)

Style Savvy: Trendsetters Shopping Spree Demo – Complete the looks of men and women in your town with your very own fashion boutique. As hundreds of customers flock to your boutique, you'll not only help them keep up with current fashion trends, but you'll also compete in fashion contests, buy new clothes for your store and customize your shop to reflect your personality. (For Nintendo 3DS)

Fractured Soul Videos – Three new videos are now available in the Nintendo eShop to give players a special look at Fractured Soul. Find out what makes the game so unique, discover some of the thoughts behind development and learn more about speed-running tricks. (For Nintendo 3DS)

Nintendo Video

Meat or Die: Coco & Chiling – Yans & Gans face a new challenge in this week's episode of Meat or Die when they try to capture a meal that can fly. Don't miss their hilarious attempts at filling their bellies, starting Nov. 6 on Nintendo Video. (For Nintendo 3DS)

Also new this week:

2 Fast 4 Gnomz (Nintendo eShop)

Spot It! Mean Machines (Nintendo eShop/Nintendo DSiWare)

Cake Ninja 2 (Nintendo eShop/Nintendo DSiWare)

In addition to video games available at retail stores, Nintendo also offers a variety of content that people can download directly to their systems. Nintendo adds new titles to the Nintendo eShop for the Nintendo 3DS™ system, to the Nintendo DSi™ Shop for the Nintendo DSi system and to the Wii™ Shop Channel for the Wii console at 9 a.m. Pacific time on Thursdays.

The Nintendo eShop is a cash-based service and features games, applications and videos in both 2D and 3D. Users can add money to their virtual wallets using a credit card or by purchasing a Nintendo 3DS Prepaid Card at a retail store and entering the code from the card.

The Wii Shop Channel offers games and applications and uses Wii Points™, which can be purchased via the Wii Shop Channel. The Nintendo DSi Shop offers games and applications and uses Nintendo DSi Points™, which can be purchased in the Nintendo DSi Shop. A Wii Points Card™ and Nintendo DSi Points Card™ can be purchased at retail locations. All points from one card must be redeemed in either the Wii Shop Channel or the Nintendo DSi Shop, respectively. They are not transferable and cannot be divided between the two systems.

Remember that Wii, Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo DSi feature parental controls that let adults manage some of the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/wii, http://www.nintendo.com/3ds or http://www.nintendo.com/ds.

