
Nintendo's Deluxe Digital Promotion Makes Wii U an Even Bigger Holiday Value

2012-10-30

Nintendo today revealed details about the Deluxe Digital Promotion, which lets consumers who buy the Wii U Deluxe Set earn points when they purchase downloadable games and redeem those points for even more fun digital content in the online Nintendo eShop. The promotion gives Wii U Deluxe Set owners a big incentive to connect their systems to the Internet and discover a constantly expanding array of downloadable games, entertainment offerings and cool ways to connect with family and friends.

All Wii U Deluxe Set owners who purchase digital content for Wii U, including downloadable games in the Nintendo eShop for Wii U and download codes sold at select retail stores, will earn points with a value equivalent to approximately 10 percent of the Nintendo eShop list price of each purchase. For example, a game priced at $59.99, such as New Super Mario Bros. U, would earn 599 points. For every 500 points they earn, participants will receive a code worth $5 in credit to be used in the Nintendo eShop for either Wii U or Nintendo 3DS. Points will be earned on all digital purchases made on a Wii U Deluxe Set from Nov. 18, 2012, until Dec. 31, 2014. When the Deluxe Digital Promotion website launches in December, participants can see the points they've earned and receive codes for Nintendo eShop credit by signing in with their Nintendo Network ID and password. Codes must be received at the website by March 31, 2015. Received codes must be exchanged for Nintendo eShop credit on Wii U or Nintendo 3DS by June 30, 2015. Nintendo eShop credit on Wii U and Nintendo 3DS does not expire.

"From day one, we want Wii U owners to experience the full breadth of great downloadable games and content available for the console," said Scott Moffitt, Nintendo of America's executive vice president of Sales & Marketing. "The Deluxe Digital Promotion is our way of encouraging Wii U Deluxe Set owners to explore the Nintendo eShop and discover how Wii U offers an incredible combination of fun, innovation, convenience and value."

The Wii U Deluxe Set offers extraordinary value right out of the box. Launching Nov. 18 at a suggested retail price of $349.99, it includes a black Wii U console, black touch-screen Wii U GamePad controller, sensor bar, AC power adapters and stands for both the console and the controller, a charging cradle for the GamePad, an HDMI cable and a copy of the Nintendo Land game, which features 12 playable attractions based on Nintendo's most imaginative and beloved game franchises. Consumers who purchase the Wii U Deluxe Set can use the Deluxe Digital Promotion with a Nintendo Network Account.

Qualifying Nintendo eShop purchases in the Deluxe Digital Promotion include games and content published by Nintendo as well as games from third-party publishers. Digital content purchases from the Wii Shop Channel are not eligible for Deluxe Digital Promotion points. Purchases from the Nintendo eShop via Nintendo 3DS hand-held and Wii U Basic Set systems are also ineligible.

Remember that Wii U features parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/wiiu.

For more information about the Deluxe Digital Promotion, visit http://ddp.nintendo.com.

