
Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask Brings an Eerie New Mystery to Nintendo 3DS

2012-10-29

As Halloween revelers get ready to don their masks and celebrate all things eerie, Nintendo is introducing a spellbinding new tale that delivers mind-bending tricks and entertaining treats for fans of portable gaming.Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask is now available for the Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo 3DS XL hand-held systems, adding a new installment to the fan-favorite Professor Layton series. Players can immerse themselves in a mystery-rich storyline that includes new characters, a shadowy masked villain and hundreds of fun puzzles that can be solved using the Nintendo 3DS touch screen. Whether they're veterans to the Professor Layton series or first-time sleuths, Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask will give all types of players an enthralling mystery to solve. What's more, puzzle lovers can look forward to 365 additional downloadable puzzles starting Oct. 28 – players will receive one per day* for a whole year, at no additional cost.

As they explore the game's colorful settings, players will encounter a wide range of characters, many of whom hold valuable clues that can help solve puzzles and advance the mysterious storyline. The puzzles in Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask are more integrated into the storyline than ever before, letting players delve deeply into the Professor's world. A mix of logic, visualization, spot-the-difference and other puzzle types will keep the action lively as players draw ever closer to revealing the masked villain’s identity. The additional 365 downloadable puzzles significantly extend the game's replay value.

"This Halloween, we’re giving fans a spooky mystery that offers portable gaming fun all year round," said Scott Moffitt, Nintendo of America's executive vice president of Sales & Marketing. "Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask is the most immersive Layton mystery yet, and it’s the kind of uniquely entertaining, brain-teasing game that’s simply not available on any other system."

Each time a player is presented with a puzzle in the game, the basic scenario is displayed on the Nintendo 3DS system’s top screen. Players then use the stylus on the touch-controlled lower screen to write, draw or drag objects as needed to solve the puzzle. Hint Coins can be collected and redeemed to provide help when players are stuck on a puzzle or elusive clue. There's also space to write notes to help get through tricky puzzles, with the ability to use multiple pen colors. Players are rewarded for solving puzzles with Picarats, the in-game puzzle currency. The more accurate they are, the more Picarats they'll receive. The game also includes minigames for an added layer of fun without the pressure of getting through the main storyline.

Shoppers can purchase the packaged game as usual at retail locations nationwide. Or they can simply purchase and download the game on their own from the Nintendo eShop using a wireless broadband connection. Regardless of the purchasing method, Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask sells at a suggested retail price of $39.99. Also, Club Nintendo members who download and register this game before Jan. 6, 2013, will receive a free download code for the Donkey Kong: Original Edition game. Donkey Kong: Original Edition has never been seen in the U.S. and is not available for purchase.

Remember that Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo 3DS XL feature parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/3ds.

For more information about Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask, visithttp://professorlayton.nintendo.com/miraclemask

*A wireless Internet connection is required.

