Plaid Magazine to cease publishing in December

Posted by Alexandra Grigorescu / November 13, 2012 

Sad news: Plaid Magazine, the Toronto-based fashion and style publication, is shutting down as of December 1, 2012.

I spoke to co-founder and editorial director Odessa Paloma Parker, who recalled starting the publication in March 2010. Now, the publication boasts a roster of several editors and a large pool of freelance contributors; the website is updated daily, and the bi-annual print publication has showcased independent Canadian designers, musicians and artists.

Over its two and a half year run, the brand has exemplified its unofficial mantra of "inspirational, not aspirational," and unlike other mass-market fashion glossies, has presented fashion as approachable, rather than intimidating.

From Parker's farewell letter:

"When Plaid began in 2010, it was with few expectations above and beyond promoting the work of the talented people I knew and wanted to know more about. What it grew into was a community of readers who cared about Canadian fashion, and about supporting artists and retailers of all kinds. Our print issues frequently sold out at stores, and there wasn't a better compliment I could receive than from someone we featured saying thank you for the coverage."

Parker couldn't reveal the reasons behind the publication's closing, but says she's personally looking forward to freelance writing and styling.

Plaid's closing seems indicative of the grim forecast for publications--particularly independent ones--at a time when the market for the written word is very much in flux. While we can speculate on the costs of printing and their role on the decision to close, the only thing that's certain is that Plaid will be missed.

Cover photo by Mike Lewis



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



PJ / November 13, 2012 at 02:49 pm

Terrible to say this, but I've NEVER HEARD of Plaid Magazine before... :(

Robert replying to a comment from PJ / November 13, 2012 at 03:16 pm

Never seen it or heard of it.

Dan / November 13, 2012 at 03:57 pm

I used to work in a supermarket not too long ago, and I can safely say I never saw this on the stands.

Commenter / November 13, 2012 at 04:03 pm

I work in media and buy advertising space in magazines and I've never heard of it!


