Wednesday, 7 November 2012
Some annoying news
Dear All,

I have some annoying news.

Despite our very best efforts, publication of the Letters of Note book — which, as you may know, was due out in time for Christmas — has been delayed until early next year.

In short, producing the book has been like wading through a sea of treacle, due in no small part to the hundreds of permissions needed before it can go to print. I was prepared for an almighty slog in that regard, but unfortunately I underestimated just how long the process can sometimes take, particularly when every single angle needs to be covered.

There are a couple of silver linings to this slow-moving cloud, though. It seems the vast majority of the letters shortlisted for the book will make it to print, as very few people have declined; also, as a result of this delay I will now be able to include some stunning letters that have featured on the website quite recently, and which would otherwise have missed the cut. That is actually very exciting.

We have a book cover designed. We have page layouts ready to go. We even have enough letters to make a great Letters of Note book. What we don't have, however, is enough to make the perfect Letters of Note book — the book I've been imagining for the past few years, and the book that will be published, but just a little later than expected — and for that reason we very recently decided to postpone its publication. I promise you, it will be worth the wait.

I'm very sorry for the delay, and for possibly ruining some Christmas present choices. Believe me, I'm frustrated too. If you have any questions, you can either email me at shaun@lettersofnote.com or the lovely folks at Unbound at hello@unbound.co.uk. Also, if you supported the book at Unbound all those months ago, you should soon receive a message similar to this one via the email address supplied at the time.

Yours apologetically,

Shaun

P.S. To ensure that the book is as good as it should be, I'll be updating this website a little less in the coming months — maybe 2 or 3 times per week. I'll be sporadically tweeting too.

