Tuesday, 6 November 2012
Our differences unite us 

Just last week, 10-year-old Sophia Bailey-Klugh wrote and illustrated an endearing letter to U. S. President Barack Obama and, as the daughter of a gay couple, thanked him for supporting same-sex marriage. She then asked for advice on how to respond to those who saw such a thing as "gross and weird." Her letter, and the reply she soon received, can be seen below.

Note: Obama's response has since been verified as genuine by an official spokesperson.

Transcripts follow each letter.

(Source: Huffington Post; Image of Obama via)

Transcript

    Dear Barack Obama,

    It's Sophia Bailey Klugh. Your friend who invited you to dinner. You don't remember okay that's fine. But I just wanted to tell you that I am so glad you agree that two men can love each other because I have two dads and they love each other. But at school kids think that it's gross and weird but it really hurts my heart and feelings. So I come to you because you are my hero. If you were me and you had two dads that loved each other, and kids at school teased you about it, what would you do?

    Please respond!

    I just wanted to say you really inspire me, and I hope you win on being the president. You would totally make the world a better place.

    Your friend Sophia

    P.S. Please tell your daughters Hi for me!

Transcript

    President Barack Obama

    November 1, 2012

    Miss Sophia Bailey-Klugh

    Dear Sophia,

    Thank you for writing me such a thoughtful letter about your family. Reading it made me proud to be your president and even more hopeful about the future of our nation.

    In America, no two families look the same. We celebrate this diversity. And we recognize that whether you have two dads or one mom what matters above all is the love we show one another. You are very fortunate to have two parents who care deeply for you. They are lucky to have such an exceptional daughter in you.

    Our differences unite us. You and I are blessed to live in a country where we are born equal no matter what we look like on the outside, where we grow up, or who our parents are. A good rule is to treat others the way you hope they will treat you. Remind your friends at school about this rule if they say something that hurts your feelings.

    Thanks again for taking the time to write to me. I'm honored to have your support and inspired by your compassion. I'm sorry I couldn't make it to dinner, but I'll be sure to tell Sasha and Malia you say hello.

    Sincerely,

    (Signed, 'Barack Obama')


