How to Make a Ribbon Balloon!

November 13, 2012 by Heather  


Last month I visited a restaurant that had light shades that looked like giant spheres made of strings of white yarn.  A friend that was with me said that she had seen tutorials online of how to make them with a balloon and some glue.

I thought that was a neat idea, and as I began thinking about ways to decorate for parties (we have a birthday coming in our family), I thought it would be fun to do something similar, but with colour. Then I thought it would be fun to try with ribbon. I wasn’t sure if it would work, but I thought you’d be interested to see what happened, so I took pictures!

Want to  join me on my experimental journey to find out if my “ribbon balloon” idea
could become a reality ?

If you’re giving this a try, you’ll need the following:
- ribbon
- white glue
- inflated balloon
- water
- helper (you can see her arm in the photo ;) )

I started by pouring some glue into a bowl, and adding a little bit of water to it. I can’t give you a measurements, because I just aimed for runny, but not totally watery.

Then I started at the end of my spool of ribbon and dipped it in the glue:

After dipping in glue, lay it on your balloon, and continue wrapping your balloon with the glue-y ribbon. This is where a little helper comes in handy. My 3 year old held the balloon for me while I worked (until she got tired of it)

It’s pretty messy & your hands will get very glue-y in the process, so be prepared for that! (I put a piece of cardboard on the table, to catch drips and for easy clean up.) For my balloon, I wanted to use more than one color of ribbon, so I got my little helper to trim the ribbon when needed, since my hands were a mess!

Before hanging the balloon to dry, I added some extra glue. I just got it in my hands & smoothed it over the balloon & ribbon. Do this carefully, or you’ll be rearranging all of your ribbons! I wanted to make sure it was really glue-y, incase I hadn’t put enough on in the first place. I wasn’t sure if it would work with ribbon as well as it does with yarn, since the ribbon wouldn’t be able to soak up the glue.

I’m thinking it may have been better to skip that step because of what happened with the glue that was inbetween ribbons, on the balloon. You’ll see what I mean soon.

Let the balloon dry overnight.  In the morning, this is what I found:

Hopeful, I popped the balloon, to see what would happen.
I was hoping for a collapsed balloon and a lovely, stiff “ribbon balloon” in its place.

Instead, this happened:

Aaaaand I was pretty sure I was going to have to come up with another post idea for you for today ;)

Feeling bummed, I pulled the balloon away from the ribbon, and “puffed up” the sad, deflated “ribbon balloon”.  To my surprise, it took shape again!  But, it had a lot of glue in between ribbons that I didn’t think looked very pretty.  (That’s why I’m thinking I could’ve skipped the extra glue step the night before)

So, I looked at that sad ribbon balloon & for a few seconds, I tried to convince myself that it was cute.  But I knew it wasn’t ;)   So, I sat down on the couch with my daughter (who was watching a movie) and while watching, I started picking/peeling those bits of glue off.  They came off quite easily but there were a lot of them.  So, it took a while, but it wasn’t hard work or anything, and it was over pretty quick since I was busy watching a movie at the same time ;)

In this photo, you can still see a few bits of glue.  You can decide how picky you want to be (pun intended) about those bits, and stop there, or keep going to make it “perfect”.

So, in the end, I am here to report that yes, you CAN create a ribbon balloon.  It won’t be stiff (as I imagined it would be), but it will hold its shape.  It might deflate and shrivel up after popping your balloon in the morning, but all is NOT lost! :)   It actually turned out to look pretty good, and I think that if you had a lot of time to spend making them, you could totally make some cute decorations out of these!

So, what do you think?
Did it end up looking cute or am I just kidding myself?
Would you make these?

P.S. Come visit me & check out some other party ideas over at my blog, Raising Memories!



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Kimberly says:	
November 13, 2012 at 8:26 am	

I’m thinking that this would have worked out better with satin ribbon since it would absorb the glue. Just a thought :)
	

    Heather says:	
    November 13, 2012 at 11:18 am	

    Good thinking!!!
    	

Sara says:	
November 13, 2012 at 10:06 am	

Very cute. You could try spraying it lightly with hairspray. Or maybe starch would even work. But I know that hairspray can stiffen ribbon.
	

    Heather says:	
    November 13, 2012 at 11:19 am	

    Oh, these are great ideas! Thank you!
    	

Alison says:	
November 13, 2012 at 10:26 am	

I think that would be fun at my daughters birthday party. Really cute!
	

    Heather says:	
    November 13, 2012 at 11:22 am	

    Thanks Alison! :)
    	

Shauna Altman says:	
November 13, 2012 at 10:27 am	

I like it! I wonder if fabric ribbon would soak up the glue better and therefore hold shape better? Oh, and I would guess about a 50/50 ratio water:glue. But don’t quote me. LOL!

Shauna
	

    Heather says:	
    November 13, 2012 at 11:23 am	

    That’s a good point about the satin ribbon soaking up the glue better!
    	

Cait says:	
November 13, 2012 at 10:35 am	

I’m a nanny to 3 little girls, so this is definitely going to be a part of their Christmas presents! Is it best to use the plastic (?) gift wrapping ribbon or would satin ribbon work, too? If you haven’t tried with the satin ribbon, then I’ll give it a go and let you know what I find out :)
	

    Heather says:	
    November 13, 2012 at 11:26 am	

    I have not tried satin ribbon, but I think satin ribbon might even work better, since it’ll be able to soak up more glue. Definitely let us know if you try it, how it went!
    	

Kathy B. (scrapkat) says:	
November 13, 2012 at 10:36 am	

I made something similar years ago with string. I used liquid starch and painted in on after the balloon was completely wrapped. I don’t think spray starch would be heavy enough to hold it, but I haven’t tried it.
	

    Heather says:	
    November 13, 2012 at 11:27 am	

    That’s an interesting idea- thanks for sharing that!
    	

Heather says:	
November 13, 2012 at 2:47 pm	

When I was younger, my mother would make these every year as a fun craft to do together. We made these at Eastertime and made them egg shaped by blowing the balloon larger and we used string. Then once dry, pop, then should would sit it down and cut open a hole and place that grass in it and we would set them out for the “Easter Bunny” to leave us treats. We looked forward to them every year.
	

