Finding Your Vintage Style Part 2

November 9, 2012 by Cristi  


Remember back in August when I shared some of my secrets to finding great vintage clothing?

Well, I am back to share the part two in showing how I like to incorporate these fabulous vintage finds with my every day wardrobe. As I mentioned before, part of my love for vintage comes from the fascination of imagining who wore them and what the world was like during that period of time.  It’s even better when I know first hand who wore it. For that reason, one of my favorite places to shop is my grandma Shirley’s closet (with her permission of course).

This is her as a young lady.

Her closet is like a play ground for me. If you remember my closet organizing tips post- I learned most of those tips from her. She has hundreds of different belts, scarves, and shoes all neatly organized.  Her favorite shoes are still stored in their appropriate box with the paper still stuffed inside! It’s amazing!

On one of my visits, she pulled out this dress and was generous enough to give it to me.

I love this dress, but it felt a bit spring time. So, I decided to grab a few things to  spice it up for fall.

First to add some more color- I swapped out the original belt for another belt (ironically this belt is from her closet as well).

I then added this jean jacket that I have had since I was like 15 (no lie) from my favorite store Zara. It’s a classic favorite of mine.

But something was still missing.  So, I pulled out a scarf I got from a vintage store and tied it around my neck.

It can easily be replaced with a large knitted scarf for winter as well but thought I would give this scarf a whirl.

Now, part of fashion is not being afraid and daring to step out of your box.

How many would wear socks with wedges?

Or maybe sport a great vintage hat?

Aren’t these hats great? I found hat box after hat box in my grandma’s basement and just had to try some on. :)

Tips to keep in mind when incorporating vintage in your wardrobe:

-Try starting by finding one focal vintage piece and revolve the rest around that piece.

- Mix old and new: Add an element of modern clothing to each vintage piece to keep it balanced. 

- Be open: Don’t be afraid to where grandma clothes- you can always spice it up with great modern accessories. 

-Own your style.  I never want to hear the words, “I just can’t pull that off ” come from your mouth! The way you look is 90% of how you carry yourself! Own it girls!

Are you ready to search around for some perfect treasures that may just be hiding in your grandmother’s closet?

For more tips and photos from my hat find visit me here at: www.trulmodlydeeply.com

xo




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Shelley says:	
November 9, 2012 at 8:41 am	

Oh those hats!!!!! I need to find MY grandma’s hat boxes.
	
Veronica Almeida says:	
November 9, 2012 at 12:46 pm	

Vintage is coming back. I was looking at some magazine the other day and found many types of styles copied from old ones.
	
Nicolette says:	
November 9, 2012 at 2:14 pm	

That striped dress is to die for! And with the yellow belt and scarf–ah! I need to check out my grandma’s closet.
	
Alison says:	
November 10, 2012 at 7:30 am	

Cute! I am loving the hats!
	
Linda Geertsen says:	
November 10, 2012 at 7:57 am	

Thanks for the breakdown! You’ve got style. Maybe it’ll rub off on me through this blog post. Crossed fingers. I hopped over to Weeds to Wishes and am really enjoying it. I’ve got my alarm set for 3:24. Thanks!
	

