A great deal of solace
By Roger Ebert on November 8, 2012 11:04 PM

I'm double-posting my review of "Skyfall" to encourage comments, which my main site can't accept.


            In this 50th year of the James Bond series, with the disappointing "Quantum of Solace" (2008) still in our minds, "Skyfall" triumphantly reinvents 007 in one of the best Bonds ever made. This is a full-blooded, joyous, intelligent celebration of a beloved cultural icon, with Daniel Craig taking full possession of a role he earlier played well in "Casino Royale," not so well in "Quantum"--although it may not have been entirely his fault. I don't know what I expected in Bond #23, but certainly not an experience this invigorating.

            The movie's innovations begin in its first shots, which abandon the familiar stalking silhouettes in the iris lens, and hit the ground running. Bond and another agent are in Istanbul, chasing a man who has stolen a crucial hard drive, and after a chase through city streets (involving no less than three Fruit Cart Scenes), 007 is running on top of a train. We know from earlier films that Bond can operate almost anything, but "Skyfall" incredibly has him commandeer a giant Caterpillar and continue the chase by crushing a flatcar stacked with VW Beetles.


            It's the kind of absurd stunt we expect in a Bond movie, but this one relies on something unexpected: A dead-serious M (Judi Dench), following the action from MI6 headquarters in London and making a fateful decision. After an enemy agent grabs Bond as a human shield, M's other agent, Eve (Naomie Harris), has both men in her gun sights. The stakes are very high. "Take the shot!" M commands. Bond seems to die, although since this happens around the 20-minute mark we're not very surprised that he doesn't.

            M begins to compose the obituary of Commander James Bond, and she might as well also be writing her own. Time has passed her by, she's older, and her new boss Mallory (Ralph Fiennes), convenes a public (!) hearing requiring her to defend her tenure. It's time for a generation to be put out to pasture. Even Q (Ben Whishaw) and, as it turns out, Miss Moneypenny are practically kids.

            M is not quite ready to retire, and "Skyfall" at last provides a role worthy of Judi Dench, one of the best actors of her generation. She is all but the co-star of the film, with a lot of screen time, poignant dialogue, and a character who is far more complex and sympathetic than we expect in this series. M for years was a remote and aloof, but she makes the boss vulnerable and fearful that she may have lost her touch. Was her snap decision responsible for the loss of Britain's most valuable secret agent?

            The film is guided by a considerable director (Sam Mendes), written by the heavyweights Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and John Logan, and delivers not only a terrific Bond but a terrific movie, period. If you haven't seen a 007 for years, this is the time to jump back in. Although it kneels at some obligatory elements and briefly genuflects at others, it has a spontaneity and emotional sincerity unexpected in a franchise picture; did "The Dark Knight" give it a jolt? If we must look forward to limitless episodes of a franchise, these films and other superhero pictures demonstrate they can also be good films. (For what is 007 if not a superhero?)

            There's a theory that you can grade the Bonds on the quality of their villains. In "Skyfall" this is a cerebral megalomanic named Silva, played by Javier Bardem, whose unpronounceable Anton Chigurh in "No Country for Old Men" approached the high-water mark of Hannibal Lector. Here he plays a gay bleached blond computer whiz who stole the drive containing the guarded identities of every MI6 agent. He no longer uses a seductive and treacherous woman to lead Bond astray (and it is too soon for him to test a seductive and treacherous boy).

            This is a brand new Bond with love and respect for the old Bond. This is dramatized during Bond's visit to the weathered Scottish mansion inhabited by Kincade (Albert Finney), which has secrets to divulge and continues the movie's rewriting of the character's back story. During the early Bonds, did we ever ask ourselves about 007's origins in life? The movie even produces a moment designed to inspire love in lifetime Bond fans: A reappearance of the Aston Martin DB5 from "Goldfinger," which remains in good operating condition, if you can guess what I mean.

            Just as Christopher Nolan gave rebirth to the Batman movies in "The Dark Knight," here is James Bond lifted up, dusted off, set back on his feet and ready for another 50 years. Am I completely misguided when I expect to see Miss Moneypenny become a Bond Girl in the next film?



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Matt Jaycox | November 9, 2012 12:13 AM | 

Dear Roger--

I haven't seen "Skyfall" yet, but your review really makes me want to.

However, I really don't get the anger and disappointment directed at "Quantum of Solace." I think it is incredibly underrated. I have seen in three times and feel it has improved with each viewing. I don't find the plotting murky at all.

I grant the action fight scenes suffered from the post-Bourne queasy cam choreography. And in no way was it the equal of the superior "Casino Royale." I realize Bond is not merely an action hero, there has to be more. But I liked the global water control plot, the relationship between Bond and female agent seeking revenge, and the terrific closing scene which ties up loose ends in Casino Royale. I truly feel it is worth a second look.

Lastly, maybe I am just a contrarian, but I think "Quantum of Solace" is a terrific title. Not one of the worst at all. I love it in the way I love "From Russia with Love" and "On Her Magesty's Secret Service".

I have heard people actually refer to "QOS" as the "worst Bond". That title still clearly belongs to "Live and Let Die".

At least everyone seems to be in agreement that "Skyfall" is superior. Can't wait to see for myself. Thanks for posting this review in your blog to encourage comments. That is a nice feature I've noticed you doing recently. Great idea.
Bart | November 9, 2012 12:20 AM | 

Roger,
A very nice review, and I can't wait to see the movie, but I have one small point. What you refer to as an iris lens at the beginning of the Bond movies is actually the inside of a gun barrel. What appears to be the iris is actually the barrel riflings.
Robert Mills | November 9, 2012 12:49 AM | 

Just saw "Skyfall" on IMAX. Let me say this, in an era when we nominate 10 films for Best Picture, "Skyfall" should absolutely be nominated both because it is one of the 10 best pictures this year and as recognition of the indelible mark the Bond series has left on cinema.
Adam T | November 9, 2012 1:16 AM | 

This film probably builds more tension than any previous Bond. Action scenes are largely replaced by effective drama; the reverse was true in Quantum. Of course Bond isn't going to die, so the film doesn't waste much time pretending that he might. It's refreshing. I've never seen a Bond film quite like this one, and while the approach is unexpected, it's certainly welcome.
Matthew Ford | November 9, 2012 1:36 AM | 

I was a big fan of the Casino Royale reboot, but I barely remember Quantum of Solace. Skyfall is a lot more personal and nostalgic, and I found it very entertaining.

It's a little weird though to have a Bond movie emphasize the frailty and humanity of its principals, but I'm sure that's just a phase. :-)

Also: if you're going to lead the bad guys into a trap, be sure and bring your own guns.
Danielle | November 9, 2012 1:46 AM | 

I was so happy to see Casino Royale with Daniel Craig as Bond. I saw it 3 times in theaters and bought the DVD (in the age of free downloads.) I agree with you about Quantum being a letdown and so excited to see this one. I really didn't want to have to give up on this one so your recommendation means the absolute world to me right now :)

On an unrelated and groupie note, you and Kanye West are two people that 'speak' to me. Something about the Chi-town mentality I guess!
Andy Hutton | November 9, 2012 1:47 AM | 

Totally agree with your review, Roger: a great Bond movie that's also a good movie. It checks all the Bond boxes (great theme song, memorable villain, beautiful women, exotic locations, exciting action) and adds great acting by the leads (particularly Dench), some surprising depth of character, and poignant conclusion. I also liked the parallels between Bond and Silva...they differed in how they reacted to a trauma earlier in their lives.
Himas | November 9, 2012 2:09 AM | 

This is great movie which truly shows Bond in making preceded by "Casino Royale". I really loved the way director emphasised on good old ways in the movie be it be aston martin db5 or radio. In Bond's own words movie succeeded at Resurrecting not only the great franchise but Bond himself to new heights.

Waiting for Bond 24.
Scott | November 9, 2012 2:21 AM | 

I think this Bond was a step up from 08... But the stoy way kind of dry.. Serious moments got laughs and what was to be laughed at did get much from the 12:07 crowed I was apart of... The love story everyone loves in Bond got started just to die off before it could really every get going... They just cant write on the same level s golden eye.. Not sure why but that's the standard in the modern bond era.. and they need to get back to that..
Gregory | November 9, 2012 2:24 AM | 

Haven't seen it yet, of course, but very much appreciate your shared opinions regarding Casino Royale (a solid film with an interesting villain) and Quantum (a miss). Anytime I'm watching a franchise film I hope to see a film that is good in and of itself. The last few years have produced some excellent examples... Mission Impossible 4 and Star Trek were both fantastic films and could be enjoyed on their own merits. Maybe we are seeing a revival in franchise films?
I hope so.
David | November 9, 2012 2:28 AM | 

"Just as Christopher Nolan gave rebirth to the Batman movies in "The Dark Knight,""

And yet, this foreshadows my problem with the movie. It is to heavily inspired by the Dark Knight. The revenge plot, the crazy villain, getting caught on purpose... it almost felt like watching the same movie twice.

I liked the movie for giving M more screen time but... her death. No emotional impact what so ever. It happened. He moved on. Compared to Vesper Lynds death in CR it felt underwhelming.


Overall, still a great movie. Especially the cinematography. Roger Deakins at his best.
Ryan Knapp | November 9, 2012 2:34 AM | 

There was an internet rumor about Idris Elba taking up James Bond after Craig leaves. I remember when I first saw Judi Dench as "M" and recalled a feeling of cultural progression; especially after most females in the Bond franchise were psychopaths, sex objects, or bullet shields. Do you think its time for Bond to change races? Could a women ever be Bond, Jane Bond?
Wilson A. | November 9, 2012 3:03 AM | 

Finally, Judi Dench gets to become the Bond girl. I was one of those who didn't see a Bond film in years and was more than happily surprised to see this one and how Sam Mendes has up the ante for the future of the franchise.

Besides the shaking up and rejuvenation of the staff, others things can be appreciated such as the different looks of Bond far from his bow and constant look even underwater (World is Not Enough).

The villain didn't convince me much as character but yes as plot device to shakes things up. Glad to we agree on this one Mr. Ebert.
Dario | November 9, 2012 3:09 AM | 

A good review. I agree on most of it, but still have some objections to the movie. There's one Bond girl and she gets too little screen-time (I don't count Moneypenny as a Bond girl) and the movie for some reason didn't have me emotionally involved. Aside from that everything works perfect. The Batman connections you talk about are striking, and a 50th anniversary theme is apparent but charming. A very good Bond, but Casino Royale stays my favorite.

This is the first time I'm commenting on your blog so I'll use this opportunity to thank you for your reviews and for inspiring me to try and put some of my thoughts to words too. I wrote some words about the Bond as well so you can check it out here: http://onlineimpressions.blogspot.com/2012/11/the-end-is-beginning.html if you wish.

Thank you once again and best of luck!

Dario
adam mcconnaughey | November 9, 2012 3:15 AM | 

"a bleached blond computer whiz"

"a gay bleached blond computer whiz"

do you not get to say "gay" in the sun-times?
EricJ | November 9, 2012 3:15 AM | 

Licence to Kill was considered the movie that singlehandedly "killed off" the old-school Broccoli Bonds, and you could make a list of how Quantum of Solace played like a history-repeats-itself remake:
- The second film for an untested new Bond with a hit first entry,
- Deciding to fall back on the "Bond goes rogue" revenge story, turning Bond grumpy and unappealing and racking up bodies for thinly defined reasons on his off hours (what we liked about 007 is that he works for Queen & Country and his parachutes have the Union Jack, otherwise, he'd be a nasty thug with good suits), while
- Pasting in a villain forcibly screenwriter-torn from today's issue headlines (80's Colombian drug dealers vs. 00's third-world water dealers) to try and post-Cold War modernize, and making us miss the old guys with the doomsday machines and white Persian cats.

I've been tensely waiting for any good reviews on Skyfall, simply because it HAD to have been a new direction--Quantum was the edge of the cliff one traditionally backs away from. If anything, nobody's using the dreaded B-word (Bourne) anymore, not after the shakycam chases it believed all spy films in the 00's "must" have.
We never got a chance to know what kind of Bond Timothy Dalton was going to be--outside of just a "grumpy" one, as fans have pegged him--and for a while, looked like we were never going to know what direction Daniel Craig was going to go, either. Pierce Brosnan had an interesting direction in that he looked like he was MI6 to the core--Even his charm with the Bond-girls seemed like it was just a calculated part of his government intelligence training, and that gave the stories more of a LeCarre' spy-novel quality behind the Lexus chases. With Craig and "Casino Royale", we sensed the new direction for 007 was going to be "deconstruction", but Quantum got...a little too deconstructed, and collapsed in on itself. Now it's time to start building again, from the ground up.
Time to figure out the mix of psychology and action that worked with Casino Royale, but, please, no more cool, handheld parkour chases this time.
Taylor Riley | November 9, 2012 3:32 AM | 

I found the work of Roger Deakins, especially in the last act, jaw dropping. I also felt a fondness for Albert Finney's character, I wasn't expecting. I wouldn't mind seeing him again.
Yu Sheng Wu | November 9, 2012 3:45 AM | 

Roger, to get a "—" on a mac, use option+shift+"-"!

Watched Skyfall, it was mind blowing.
Kevin Oh | November 9, 2012 4:07 AM | 

Great review Mr. Ebert! I completely agree with your review. Where some critics believe that this movie is the highest point Bond films will reach in this day and age, I personally believe it instead allows the franchise a fresh new start. This is not only the best Bond in a long time, but I just think it's one of the best action movies to come out in years.
wordbeeps | November 9, 2012 4:17 AM | 

My goodness. Am I actually first to comment on an Ebert article?
First, it should be, "M is not quite ready to retire," not "quire". Forgive me. Driving away from work in my weekly newspaper days I could still see the pages as I drove and had called the office on a few occasions to ask that a certain paragraph be checked as there was an error in it. Old habit.
I am, sir, your second-most rabid fan. I read Emerson, Joseph Campbell and Ebert.
The pace of this column appears to match the pace of what must be a damned exciting movie. I am not a movie-goer, but I will see this one.
Once again, sir, I thank you. Most humbly.
Andy Graham | November 9, 2012 4:20 AM | 

I'm a huge James Bond fan, but I'm afraid I didn't like this movie. That said, I loved a few things, like the car and the last few minutes, which practically had me jumping up and down with joy. (That leather paneled door!)

My complaints follow in order of severity, most severe first (SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS):

No henchmen, no spying. With the exception of the Bond girl, whose name escapes me, Bond barely talks to anyone on the other side or investigates anything. He spends all his time shooting people, which is boring. How many of Silva's team can you remember? None, just hundreds of faceless cannon fodder extras.

Dreadful third act. Lets all go to the country and have a gunfight. That's the plan?! These action scenes were also lazy. Running from a fireball down a corridor? Running from criss-cross gunfire down a corridor? Has anyone ever NOT shot the ice and fallen through it?! Not only have I seen those scenes before, I've those shots before. There's practically a setting on the camera.

Sexism (I know, I know). All the men turn out to be slightly badass , e.g. Q and new M. All the women turn out to be helpless. M can't shoot, bond girl buys it without a fight, while Eve admits she can't cut it in the field. The Eve thing is the most galling - wouldn't that last scene have worked better if she'd been 008 mistaken by Bond for a secretary?

After that it's just nitpicking. Anyone not anticipate that plugging a hacker's laptop into a secure network was a recipe for disaster? And I, personally, disliked the seemingly token introduction of a backstory for Bond and a "Kincade".

The best Bond of recent times was Casino Royale. Before that it was Goldeneye, The Living Daylights, Moonraker, OHMSS and every last one of the Sean Connery movies.
Luiz Asp | November 9, 2012 4:24 AM | 

I really loved that one, but what can I say? I'm 31 and Ive seen each and everyone of them since Dalton. Skyfall doesn't only honor 007's tradition, it improves it, giving Bond something he never had and we didn't knew we missed: a past.

But that's not only about background: did he ever had such a meaningful relationship as he had this time with M? Who would say that in 50 years his most meaningful relationship would be with an older woman he wouldn't bed?

My Bourne-loving friends thought it wasn't such a great one, 'cause this movie wasn't made for them. Maybe it wasn't even made for fans like me, but for 50 more years of Bond, James Bond.
Francesco | November 9, 2012 4:35 AM | 

Attention Spoilers

First chase scene: bad guy on top of the train, Moneypenny drives a car along the tracks, not 20 meters from him, with clear line of sight. She does not shoot him. I assume she doesn't have a gun.
But a little later she dismaunts the car with a rifle. Why didn't she take a shot?
Also: after she shoots Bond she has about 10 more seconds to try and shoot the bad guy before the train gets in the tunnel, but she doesn't.

For the rest of the movie I expected Moneypenny to be on the bad guy's side...

You can't direct a 100 million dollar movie and fail so miserably in the first 15 minutes.
Gary Cronin | November 9, 2012 4:47 AM | 

I felt it had three types of Bond:
Craig in the first act, classic Bond in the middle and a strange meta-historical Bond in the finale. I didn't like the climactic scenes myself, but maybe that was due to my complete enjoyment of the film, until a jarringly annoying A-Team-style montage.
Joel Futterman | November 9, 2012 4:49 AM | 

Thank you, Mr. Ebert for all of your reviews. I look forward to reading your reviews each week.

Your writing for me has an earthly quality that is unmatched by any critic.

Thank you again for all of your efforts. Your writing has enriched my life for many years.

Peace, Health, Best Regards,
Joel Futterman
http:www.joelfutterman.com
Ida | November 9, 2012 5:10 AM | 

I won't be watching this film any time soon dear Roger; I'll have to wait for the bootleg version (Sorry!) to reach Iran but I'm already excited about the prospect of watching this awesome film. The trailers and TV spots got me all tensed up, and now your as-always-remarkable review has made me want to watch it even more.
john | November 9, 2012 5:20 AM | 

I was surprised by the many positive reviews of Skyfall. Despite a great deal of promise, and enjoying some of the innovations and references, (It was also significantly better than the previous two) the plot did not seem to add up. The suggestion that Silva deliberately manipulated the sequence of events (Bond's capture, Bond's ability to escape from the abandoned island, his capture, the elaborate hacking of the computer, and then the planned train crash distraction) only for it to be foiled by a bit of gunfire was nonsensical. I appreciate Bond's forte is the ridiculous, but previous Bond's, whilst bombastic in their storylines, at least were fairly straightforward, and not quite as muddle headed. Also, Bardem was captivating in places but under used.

Aside from that, I am still not convinced by Craig. He is a great actor (better than any of the previous Bonds) yet in this role, he comes across as a bit of a bruiser, rather than suave. He does not look good in a Dinner Jacket, short gelled blond hair and massive muscles don't seem to fit. Maybe this is truer to the novels, but my reference points are the previous films.

Having said that, maybe I'm tired of Bond. Bond films always seem behind the times, and I am not sure what is appealing about it. It always apes the films of the day from the 1970's onwards, often failing to be as interesting or innovative.

Bond obviously holds a unique place in the movie goers heart, going on seemingly for ever, leaving other franchises in its wake (except seemingly Starwars.) I presume it appeals like a comfortable pair of slippers; similar plot points in each episode, waiting for bond to say he's Bond, a Bond girl getting killed, Bond captured, escapes, gets beaten up, wins etc.

I'll probably watch the next one.

Love reading your reviews Roger keep it up.

Luis Garzón | November 9, 2012 5:25 AM | 

The film is indeed of the greatest bonds in a lot of time. I would say the use of London locations is a good idea, with the pursuit in the underground as a top point. I also enjoyed the final scene in the scottish highlands. And I wonder why the role of Kincaid (Albert Finney) was not played by Sean Connery.
The film also lends itself to other political interpretations. Such as the errors made by M that result in more problems to the MI6 and her former mistakes having damaged Bardem. M even looks a bit like Angela M...erkel and the film could also be commenting critically on the European situation, with rulers from the richest countries which are unsensitive to the problems of their citizens, specially of those from southern European countries like Spain or Greece.
By the way, I am Spanish.
Luis
Bradley Dion Oliver | November 9, 2012 5:27 AM | 

I saw it and it took me back to the old days of Connery, and Moore. I was very much impressed at how Bond was given some emotion and him shacking and showing a little weakness was great.

The villian was played very well and he showed deep emotion as well. Q was charming and as a ex military man was a little up set at the lack of trigger pulling by Miss.Moneypenny!

I have been a fan since I was a kid born in 70, and had not enjoyed a Bond movie like this in 20 years.
David L | November 9, 2012 5:31 AM | 

After two movies that attempted to reinvent a new contemporary Bond by by making him gritty (i.e. removing some of the over-the-top fun) and realistic (by jettisoning less believable but beloved details) it is a pleasure to see them re-introduced. It is nostalgic without the mournful. I liked it.
Peter | November 9, 2012 5:46 AM | 

It was the first Bond movie I went to see in the cinema, and that means a lot ( I didn't like Pierce Brosnan in the part).
I think the film deserved every single of your four stars, but the intro sequence was even better than the rest. If only a whole film could look like that.
Benjamin | November 9, 2012 6:10 AM | 

Given the Olympic games, other sporting successes and the jubilee celebrations making this a memorable year in the UK, a great bond movie, set largely in the UK, has become another proud talking point in pubs up and down the country. For me the movie is defined by two shots; firstly the realistic views of the London skyline Bond sneaks up to at the end of the film, the sort of views you glimpse from hard to reach places in the capital and not from a million pound flat or sky rise office. Secondly the shot of the silver Aston Martin DB5 against the backdrop of the beautiful Scottish highlands. The movie is less defined by being a great Bond film than by being a great British film during an uncharacteristically optimistic year for us lot.
Terence Miguana | November 9, 2012 6:11 AM | 

Living in Scotland I had the the great fortune of seeing this terrific film last week and I have been blabbing about it constantly
I was not a great supporter of Daniel Craig as James Bond but this film has really turned me round. He has really made the character his own and Judy Dench is easily the best M we have ever had.
Bond films are notoriously predictable and don't leave much room for analysis but surpisingly my brother and I had a lot to discuss about Skyfall and found the invading our conciousness well after the credits rolled. To me that is the sign of great movie. One that stays with you and gives your more go over in your head.
I was very anxious to hear Mr Eberts review as I know he is a great fan of the Bond franchise and I was sure he was going to love it. A lot of comparisons have been made to The Dark Knight but I felt it had more in common with Heat especially with the villain
being more sympathetic and almost the flip side to Bond.
Skyfall is easily one of the best Bond adventures and I feel that Judy Dench deserves an Oscar.

Without spoiling anything I wonder what Roger Ebert thinks of the 'William Tell' scene in Skyfall which has caused some controversy with some UK critics due to the fact that Bond makes a quip when someone close to him is murdered. Simon Mayo of BBC 5 Live found this out of character where as I found it showed Bond's disconnection with emotion when he is in the presence of his enemys just like the homoerotic interogation scene which was my brother quiped afterwards "It was about time that happend in a Bond film.

Kentucky Packrat | November 9, 2012 6:15 AM | 

I'm really glad to see Bond get some growth. I love the character that sprang forth in Dr. No, but the only time he got room to grow was "On Her Majesty's Secret Service", and Lazenby just wasn't up to carrying the part (he's grown as an actor since then, but almost no first-time actor could have IMHIO).

The British critics are talking Best Picture for Skyfall. Of course they would, they're fans of the home team. I'm just curious what you think, Mr. Ebert. Is Skyfall a legitimate contender for the Oscars? Should it be?

Thankfully, I've got Milady talked into a date night for Skyfall.
William Goodnow | November 9, 2012 6:25 AM | 

Mr. Ebert,

It may come to no surprise to you, but after No Country For Old Men and now Skyfall I am convinced Roger Deakins is the best cinematographer alive. Everyone will be talking about the scene in Shanghai for many years, I'm sure, but for me it was the climax of the film. The way Deakins' love of shadows fit the theme of the film was captivating. The burning blaze of the mansion illuminating the moor, casting silhouettes of Bond and Silva was some of the most breathtaking cinematography I'd seen a not just a Bond movie, but any film. Do you think Deakins will have another Oscar, and a Bond film might receive its first for Cinematography after this?
Paul | November 9, 2012 6:49 AM | 

Saw the film and really enjoyed it. Main thing that frustrates me is a recurring problem since the Brosnan era: producers commissioning a theme song that doesn't have anything to do with the film's score. A strength of the series, and a key to its longevity, is the music. Each song/score gives a film its own identity in the greater series. Skyfall has the same problem, though to the composer's credit he shoehorned the song melody into the movie once..though ironically not actually at Skyfall. The rest of the score is decent, but utterly generic and far too reliant on the Bond theme.

Roger, if you ever talk with the producers, please tell them that this is a problem and, if you could, please encourage them to make a bluray option where you can watch movies like Tomorrow Never Dies with their original composer-written song over the credits.
Robert | November 9, 2012 7:07 AM | 

Skyfall was indeed a great Bond film. It felt like both classic and knew. Though I did wish they kept the opening iris shot in the beginning.
IDIMIN | November 9, 2012 7:17 AM | 

Hmmm. I guess I didn't see the same movie that Roger did. Very long and quite boring in parts.

The thing that bothered me most id that the plot is essentially the same as countless other spy movies (won't do any spoilers here, but anyone who sees it will pick up on what I'm talking about).
Will | November 9, 2012 7:21 AM | 

This is great to hear, Roger, and definitely makes me look forward to seeing this.

Do you think there's a chance that between movies like this and the Dark Knight (Hanna is another that comes to mind) that we're seeing a trend toward smarter action a la the late '60s/early '70s? And what would that mean for our era? Would love to hear your perspective on that.

Thanks as ever for the great reviews.
Wayne C. Rogers | November 9, 2012 7:23 AM | 

I was going to wait a few weeks until the crowd dies down, but after reading your review, I'm going to get off early today from work and see the movie before the rush. Though I grew up with Sean Connery as Bond, and in many ways till see him as Agent 007, Daniel Craig has certainly won a place in my heart as the British spy. If only Ian Fleming had known how the movies would take off with the premier of Goldfinger. The World has never been the same!
Mike | November 9, 2012 7:24 AM | 

Phew! I’m glad you liked this one. I’ll be taking my father to tomorrow’s matinee show at my local Imax, and I’m now looking forward to it even more. (Bless Imax; while I know that ‘Skyfall’ wasn’t explicitly shot for the format, my local Imax seems to be one of the few remaining theaters where I don’t have to stress about interruptions from cell phones and rude patrons, and the specter of an endless supply of advertising and commercials before the film.)

Also, brief nitpicky question: am I correct in thinking that you revised the intro to the review to reflect your four star review of Craig and ‘Casino Royale?’
JohnnyCNote | November 9, 2012 7:25 AM | 

I was never a Bond fan until Daniel Craig came along. After his great role in Layer Cake, I had to see him as James Bond. And like many others, I was thoroughly and positively impressed with Casino Royale, but could have done without Quantum of Solace.
However, he seems to have not simply rehabilitated his portrayal, he's exceeded it and moved the bar even higher. I hope he remains Bond for the unforeseeable future . . .
Michael Haydel | November 9, 2012 7:28 AM | 

I enjoy seeing Daniel Craig play Bond, but, if we look to the future, who in your opinion is poised to take Craig's place and (hopefully) keep up whatever momentum there is in the series as the potential next Bond once Craig moves on?

Any particular actor-director pairings you'd like to see?
Danny Macchietto | November 9, 2012 7:36 AM | 

My wife works at an assisted living coordinator as an activities director. Her lively group of seniors is very finicky about the films they see on various outings, but they are very excited about Skyfall, most of whom have been avid Bond fans for 50 years. I'm even more excited for my wife, now having read your review. She has seen only two Bond films... of the Brosnan collection... and has never really understood the appeal. I'm crossing my fingers.
Bond Fan | November 9, 2012 7:36 AM | 

Classic Bond films always stood apart from their action genre brethren. There is at least one thing missing in 'Skyfall' - it's what used to make Bond films good, sometimes great, and that is: atmosphere. Here is another quality made shooter, one of many. Where is the unbelievable lightness of being, the joy of conquering, the parallel universe where money is never a problem, but merely an instrument of achieving world domination? Call it "Big Trouble In Little Scotland" starring Daniel Craig and stop exploiting a great franchise already!
Mark | November 9, 2012 7:50 AM | 

Thanks for the review Mr. Ebert. I read your stuff ALL the time. You are pretty much the only reviewer i look to for the REAL, ABSOLUTE take on things.

So i just want to say that i appreciate your work.

However, with Skyfall (a movie i'm not going to see until tomorrow afternoon), i was a little disappointed that you didn't delve into the mythos of Bond, or get into the more intricate parts of the film, which you definitely suggest are present in Mendes' film.

I was reading your review, and it just ended, and i was like "what, that's it?"

I was looking for a more in-depth review of this film....being the best Bond film as you say, i was looking forward to reading a massive article, haha.

But either way, nice review.

Thanks.
Kazim ŞENOCAK | November 9, 2012 7:51 AM | 

There wasn't any spy conspiracy or any clever plan at all. It was just a role play or a theater play. Superhero cliches are used without thinking twice like a student movie. And the second part of the movie must be called as Home Alone: James Bond. I think that you liked the movie as respect for the old James Bond movies. Best regards.
Jack | November 9, 2012 7:55 AM | 

I was waiting for one to "jump back in" for. The turn toward the Jason Bourne-esque style really turned me off. This is Bond, after all. I hear Sean Connery was briefly considered for "Kincade," what a treat that would have been.
William Kendall | November 9, 2012 7:57 AM | 

I've already been wanting to see this film for months... this review just seals the deal. Outstanding review, Mr. Ebert!
Marcus | November 9, 2012 8:01 AM | 

Powerful Cast & Crew made the promise of something special this time around. Extremely glad this entry in the series has gained your approval...I'm now greatly looking forward to seeing this sooner rather than later!
Andrew Bacon | November 9, 2012 8:21 AM | 

Much to my shame I've never seen a Bond film before (I've spent the last week trying to rent Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace from Netflix to prepare for this movie, but have had no luck) and I was wondering: Can this movie stand on its own?

Will I be completely lost if I watch this film not knowing anything about the Bond universe?
Bill Pierce | November 9, 2012 8:22 AM | 

I'm not as fond of Bond as some. It's the quintessential franchise; the genre is largely set in stone, and viewers know what to expect. This may be comBill Pierceforting for fans, but it limits the range of surprises to the degree in which it can play at the edges of the convention. That's just not why I go to the movies. However, I will grant you that "Skyfall" reinvigorates Bond far more than many of its recent predecessors and is reasonably enjoyable entertainment.
aaron | November 9, 2012 8:26 AM | 

Roger, just looking at your reviews the last few years. You are giving out way too many 3.5 and 4 star reviews.

Movies that 20 years ago would have been 2 star are now 3, etc... Why has the bar been lowered?

Shawshank Redemption 3.5 stars, Flight and Bond 4 stars. Are you kidding me?
Max Horsthemke | November 9, 2012 8:27 AM | 

"Just as Christopher Nolan gave rebirth to the Batman movies in "The Dark Knight,"...."
exactly what I thought when I saw the Javier Bardem character on screen. The screenwriters seem to have stolen quite a bit from Heath Ledger's Joker: From the theatric way he talks to sporting a gruesome injury in the face, from disguising himself as a police man to setting up explosives and using other heavy weaponry to attack Bond.
Or is that too far-fetched? I for one immediately registered all the similarities...
Thomas R. Himes | November 9, 2012 8:34 AM | 

The silhouette shot of the traditional Bond film opening is not through an iris lens, but down the rifled barrel of a gun.
John Jakes | November 9, 2012 8:45 AM | 

Exemplary review ~ as is your take on one
of my fayvorite historical figures, Lincoln.
AGP | November 9, 2012 8:51 AM | 

I only have two things to say: I thought Quantum of Solace in its entirety was a fourth act to Casino Royal (doesn't work as a whole movie but works as a closing chapter). And I don't think Moneypenny will (or should) be a Bond girl. But here's a question I found myself asking while watching the movie whose answer, never having read the Bond novels, I don't know: is it an inherent part of the character that he's one of the older (if not the oldest) agents in MI6? Because otherwise all those references to his age were a bit much.

PS: You wrote M16 every time you meant MI6.
Smoky | November 9, 2012 8:51 AM | 

The original Bond books by Ian Flemming were jokes making fun of detective stories. Dr. No graduated as a dentist at Marquette University. Dr. No dies with a lot of guano dumped on him.
unclo o. | November 9, 2012 8:53 AM | 

roger -
always consult yr reviews before deciding to see any movie.
just a couple corrections to your review of skyfall:
1: the opening title scenes are shown not thru an iris lens, but thru a rifled gun barrel.
2. british secret service is MI6, michael irving six, not M16.
best wishes, uncle o.
David Thomson | November 9, 2012 9:03 AM | 

Skyfall is the Bond movie I have always hoped they'd make but never expected them to. It's Ian Fleming's Bond, straight off the page. And it's smart.

In what universe would you expect to compare a Bond movie to Straw Dogs and Days of Heaven? In this one apparently.

The film is hugely fun, but has a very serious theme: the place of tradition in the modern world. It really feels like a statement about modern Britain by Mendes, Deakins and Crag - three of our leading filmmakers.

Ever since reading the books I've wanted to see Ian Fleming's creation on screen, not the cartoon that Bond has often lapsed into on screen. Skyfall brings in a serious director, a serious cast, and one of the greatest cinematographers working today. They all have a blast and over deliver.

Skyfall is by far the closest depiction of the Bond from the novels. The novels are in many ways are about the traditions of the British Empire colliding with post WW2 decline. Something that Skyfall almost stands as a response to. Skyfall itself is an answer the questions and insecurities Fleming exposed as the Empire rapidly declined in the 50s and 60s.

If Roger Moore is your favorite Bond, you may be disappointed (unless you loved For Your Eyes Only - another previous high watermark). Like the books that were such a shock on fist reading... Gone are the corny quips. Gone are the invisible cars. (Q even says "we don't do that sort of thing any more"). The one liners are still there but when they come they have a bitter emotional edge that reveals character not frippery.

SPOILERS HERE:

The central Tennyson quote by M is the key to the whole film (incase you missed the relevance of the Fighting Temarare by Turner earlier on). Throughout the film tradition is constantly threatened by modernity - and each time a tempered version of tradition comes up trumps. There are countless examples... Bond is shot not by the mistake of someone on the ground, but because of the high tech communication. MI6 new building is destroyed and they're safer in ancient WW2 tunnels. Silva is a tech genius, but Bond (and M) is repeatedly called out of touch or old. And of course, the final sequence can be seen as one giant metaphor - the high tech invaders storming Bond's castle with all their equipment and Bond has ancient rifles and a knife. And how does he finally beat Silva - by the most simple weapon he has. There is so much of this throughout the film I can't remember it off the top of my head. The whole film is about the interaction of tradition and modernity.

The reading I take from the film is as Tennyson says: time will give you a beating, but hold onto your history and traditions and they will steel you against anything that comes at you. That's exactly what James Bond does.

SPOILERS END

I'd love to hear how Americans react to the themes of tradition in the film. Particularly around the relevance of the Tennyson quote from Ulysses spoken by M:

Though much is taken, much abides; and though
We are not now that strength which in old days
Moved earth and heaven; that which we are, we are;
One equal temper of heroic hearts,
Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will
To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.

If putting that Tennyson speech into the mouth of one of our greatest living actors in the middle of our biggest cultural exports isn't a statement about Britain, I don't know what is.

I can't see any of those sentiments or political position of Skyfall being made by many American filmmakers.

Take Jason Bourne for example. Compare Bourne and Bond as characters. Bourne is made from the tabula rasa. He is a man without a past constantly seeking it. A man who doesn't know his strength and was created by strength of will. Bond on the other hand is a man with a very strong past and ancient traditions which is exactly where he finds heroic will and strength.

Some reviewers over here have called Skyfall a post Bourne Bond, but I think that's entirely wrong. That was the dreadful Quantum of Solace and it was a mess. This is a post-Inception Bond. It's a massive blockbuster that is quite comfortable having quite a high IQ while blowing things up in the background.

I find it very interesting that with the two peaks of Skyfall and the Olympics, 2012 has seen Britain talking confidently to the world about itself in a way it hasn't for a long time.

And the fact that you can even start talking about the film in this way is surely a resounding reassurance that Bond and his traditions are in very rude health.
Ulysses S | November 9, 2012 9:14 AM | 

I think Skyfall is a great movie. I'm just not sure it is a great James Bond movie.
Daniel | November 9, 2012 9:40 AM | 

I didn't find Quantum of Solace to all that dismal to be honest with you. I will say that for all of its missteps, Craig had nothing to be ashamed of. He does everything he can with the material; sometimes, perhaps an actor truly is only as great as his or her material allows......sometimes.

I feel like Craig owned the role from his first frame in Casino Royale, truthfully. But, no, none of Quantum's problems are his fault.
Nathan | November 9, 2012 10:00 AM | 

I've seen all the Bond films, Mr. Ebert, and had a large collection of VHS tapes and recorded movies from TBS (when they had the Bond marathons).

I grew up watching the Pierce Brosnan films in high school. I was skeptical that Daniel Craig could carry the torch passed to him by Pierce, so I held off on seeing "Casino Royale" until a free midnight showing was offered at my college.

I enjoyed it thoroughly, and am now convinced that Daniel Craig may be the best Bond. "Skyfall" has been heralded as the best film since "Goldfinger" by a few newspapers.....

But I don't think we're going to get another "Goldfinger".The newer Bond films is that they seem to reveal a self-aware nihilism that wasn't necessarily prevalent in spy films from the 1960s.

Even though the cinematography is still as breathtaking as it was when Ted Moore filmed the iconic shots in Switzerland for Goldfinger, the character of Bond doesn't seem to be enjoying the view near as much as Sean Connery did.

Part of Connery's adeptness for the role was that he always seemed to be self-aware of his surroundings, and subtley let the audience know he was in on the joke. It's not like the 1960s were any more devoid of turmoil (ie, the Cuban Missle Crisis) than they are today, but Bond seemed to rise above it as a beacon of escapism.

Starting with Timothy Dalton, I've become aware that Bond as a character is becoming less a means of escape and more of a vent for cultural catharsis.

This became especially apparent watching Quantum of Solace.

His villain wasn't a gimmick-ridden meglomaniac, but a profiteer with a business casual haircut. Bond's knowing wink was replaced with a world weary grimace. He didn't push the villain over the edge of a pirahna pit, so much as strangle them with his bare hands on a patio.

It was pleasant to see the tone lighten, but I see a film like "Skyfall" and I wonder if we can ever go back to enjoying films that didn't take themselves so seriously. Do these movies even serve the same purpose that they used to?

I don't remember Goldfinger being this solemn.
Matt | November 9, 2012 10:02 AM | 

I think the most enjoyable part of it for me was when it unexpectedly became a siege film at the end. The recent Bonds have always featured high-octane chase sequences or ticking time bomb suspense plots, and it's not that I don't enjoy them, but they've started to become indispensable. I feel no absolute need to watch some of them anymore because they're interchangeable. But Skyfall, despite featuring so many callbacks to the 60s films, had a third act unlike any other Bond film. I was really surprised when it turned into an awesome version of Rio Bravo. The hoots and hollers in the audience indicated they felt the same way.

This is one I'll be coming back to often. With pleasure.
Greg Anderson | November 9, 2012 10:10 AM | 

Thank you for your wonderful review, once again, Mr. Ebert. I am, and always have been, and big James Bond fan, and now I find myself in such anticipation of this movie that I can hardly contain myself.

One thing: am I the only one on this planet that did not hate "Quantum Of Solace"? I mean, it was not nearly as good as "Casino Royale", but when you compare it to many of the earlier Bond films, it is still quite good. Let's be honest: there are many, many Bond films that are quite terrible, and I do not think that Quantum is one of them.
Seth | November 9, 2012 10:14 AM | 

I haven't seen the film yet. But all I know is that when a train splits in half and a man drops down to the edge of the remaining half, nearly dying, then that man gets up and straightens his shirt cuff, that man is James Bond.
Shteevie | November 9, 2012 10:19 AM | 

I was disappointed at first. Disappointed because the filmmakers were carrying on the tradition of NOT opening with the trademark gunbarrel sequence.

But I very quickly warmed up to Skyfall and I left the theatre thinking I'd seen the best movie of the year. I'd heard early reports that Judi Dench might snag an Oscar nomination for her performance as M. My first reaction was to scoff. After seeing Skyfall, I wouldn't be surprised to see her name among the nominees.
Anthony | November 9, 2012 10:43 AM | 

The visual aspects of this movie were really quite stunning, One of my favorite visual cues is when Daniel Craig tells Bérénice Marlohe's character that he wants to meet her employer. We haven't seen or heard mention of Javier Bardem's character up until this point (even though we know he's wiating out there somewhere later in the film). She doesn't say anything for a moment, but takes a hit off her cigarette. The way her hand shakes as she does this, after the two of them have been flirting so cooly, let's you know that whoever it is we are about to meet is going to be a different kind of villain then we've seen before in the Bond films.
Scott S. | November 9, 2012 10:47 AM | 

Hi Roger, it's not a camera iris, it's the inside of a gun barrel. A gun barrel is actually twisted on the inside to give its bullet spin. Google "lans and grooves rifling".

Geez, can't believe you've been a bond fan for 40 years and never knew that. ;)
Mr. Bad | November 9, 2012 11:18 AM | 

I know that the opening shot looks like an iris lens and who knows maybe it is but I always assumed that it was in fact a bullet's POV shot. What looks like an iris lens is rather the rifling on the inside of a gun's barrel. Either way, great metaphor.
D. Parsons | November 9, 2012 11:26 AM | 

Hi Roger,
I'm a fan of your work but I think I have to provide a correction here. The usual "familiar stalking silhouettes in the iris lens" is not a view through an iris but through the barrel of a gun. Those are rifling grooves.
Just a detail,
Cheers,
Don

Ebert: I read it as an iris shot handled like a un barrel sighting.
Spencer | November 9, 2012 11:31 AM | 

I completely agree with what you've said here. I have loved the Bond films for years. Mostly, this is because of the types onscreen that I expect. Sexy lady, strange villain, tough boss, etc. Skyfall brings drama to the Bond series in a way not seen often or directly at all. It was a pleasure, Mr. Bond.
B.R. | November 9, 2012 11:32 AM | 

Hi Roger

So would you say this film is far better then Casino Royale?
Jaskee | November 9, 2012 11:35 AM | 

Skyfall isn't a bad film in my eyes, but I did think it was rather plain and predictable. It was the first Bond movie that I've ever seen from start to finish, but I've seen everything in this movie before in other action films.
Steve S. | November 9, 2012 11:40 AM | 

I believe it's an iris of an eye. That's why when bond shots it starts to turn red (blood) and sway.
erfan | November 9, 2012 11:40 AM | 

its beautiful and well acted ( bardem isnot that good however ) . but the main problem is there is no mystery and its painfully boring . plot is just mix of die hard and dark knight . I am not the only one who thinks like that me and everybody in cinema thought same . where is the thrill of casino royal ? I love sam mandes but this movie is just beautiful from outside , there is nothing inside . I know why you love this movie and that make it more painful because you have awesome cast , gorgeous scenes but there is no thrill or mystery . I mean bond is an agent and spy but we dont see any mysetery . Please excuse my poor English
Marcelo Martinez | November 9, 2012 11:45 AM | 

Hello roger ,
I just want to start off by saying that I've Been reading your reviews for as long as I can remember , in fact I asked for one of your books for a Christmas present back in the 7th grade . Your writing is my main form of entertainment ! So, is Skyfall taking bond in a new direction in terms of tone and character development ? I recall casino royals to be a gorgeous movie with fun action scenes but lacking in character . I remember cringing anytime bond was in "trouble" because it just seemed pointless knowing he was going to get out of it . That's my problem with bond movies, way too formulaic with one dimensional villains.

P.s. I always wondered what modern tv shows you like to watch ! Care to share ?

Thank you


Thomas | November 9, 2012 11:46 AM | 

Dear Roger,

Where do you think the series can go from here? And who would you like to see be the next Bond?

-Thoms
Andrew | November 9, 2012 11:46 AM | 

Big fan Roger! Great read! Can't wait to see it!
Jeff | November 9, 2012 11:47 AM | 

Greetings Roger, thank you for decades of witty and insightful commentaries.

I could only watch about 10 minutes of (the new) "Casino Royale" and didn't even bother with "Quantum of Solace" simply because i felt the producers had transformed Bond into too much of a super soldier. Also, i was really really hoping for a period piece set in the early 60's.

I have high hopes for this one and you've gotten my attention. :)

Cheers!
Robert Taylor | November 9, 2012 11:47 AM | 

I consider "Casino Royale" (also written by Purvis and Wade) to be one of the best written "action" films of all time, and your review has taken my expectations into the stratosphere.

I was surprised to see you didn't comment on the opening musical number and Adele's song. Like? Dislike? Love?
Nick Zumbre | November 9, 2012 11:51 AM | 

I'd say the iris and the gun barrel are both there, on purpose.
Dimitri LaBarge replied to comment from D. Parsons | November 9, 2012 11:51 AM | 

It's a gun barrel. Maurice Binder talked about how he shot the original sequence through a .38 gun barrel, using a tiny pinhole camera so it would stay in focus.
Darby O'Brien | November 9, 2012 11:55 AM | 

As usual an intelligent and well thought out comment on the film. You should stick to this genre, and avoid showing your naivete when you tweet about politics, clearly demonstrating that you tragically believe there is actually a fundamental difference between puppets Romney or Obama.
D Cowles | November 9, 2012 11:56 AM | 

I belive this Bond movie is 2 hrs 43 minutes? Does that make it the longest Bond movie, ever?
Jim S | November 9, 2012 11:57 AM | 

Thanks for the great review, Roger. I've had the Skyfall theme song playing constantly on my phone for several weeks in anticipation. Looking forward to the Imax version!
Meredith Usher | November 9, 2012 11:57 AM | 

While I have nothing but praise for the acting in SKYFALL, I was particularly disturbed by its reactionary attitudes to gender and geopolitics. All of the women are curiously portrayed as physically dis-empowered to such a degree that one could conclude that the message is for them to remain sexy and/or desk-bound but still require a man to defend them. Bardem's character could be read as a stock gay villain, but more likely is a trite demonization of internet hacker Julian Assange (right down to the blonde hair). The screenwriters have seen fit to reduce the argument for freedom of information, to a childish Freudian revenge scenario. Also ridiculed is the liberal notion of civilian oversight of government. A melodramatic scene that is preceded by a patronizing lecture about the need for a "secret service" from Judi Dench's M, is cheaply underscored moments later by demonstrating the impotence of a questioning female Member of Parliament when threatened with violent reprisals. On the 50th anniversary of the franchise, SKYFALL is an unfortunate step backward for Bond.
Drew | November 9, 2012 11:58 AM | 

It seemed to me like the film was wrapping up what's structured like a prequel trilogy. Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace were an experiment into Bourne territory, and when Quantum of Solace didn't impress as much as Casino Royale had, they decided to fill out a trilogy and made a film that starts with Bourne and slowly but surely shifts it back to classic Bond throughout the second half, and much more so at the very end.

I felt the first half of the film came off as very disjointed for this reason, but the third act it set up was very satisfying, and really did turn it into the best Bond since the Dalton years..
Gerardo | November 9, 2012 11:58 AM | 

I wonder if that was Auric Goldfinger's wharehouse/factory where the Aston Martin DB5 was kept? It sure looked like it. Unlike other versions of the beloved vehicle (from the Brosnan entries), this one does have the same license plates as that first used by Sean Connery but the last time we saw that particular one was in "Thunderball".
And regarding the handling of the giant Caterpillar, for a man who can take a sip at a glass of champagne and guess the maker and year, driving a Caterpillar doesn't seem all that dificult.
Andrew | November 9, 2012 11:59 AM | 

Skyfall was great! Not quite as good as the recent Casino Royale, but certainly one of the best popcorn action films this year. I was very happy to see Moneypenny return, and that their flirtatious will they/won't they dynamic that made Lois Maxwell so memorable is still intact.

Also (SPOILERS), I am pleased to see a more Bernard Lee-esque M on hand, now. I love Judy Dench in the role, but the change excites me, especially because the office dynamic feels so similar to early Bond flicks like From Russia With Love. Not the very best Bond film, but possibly the best 50-year commemoration of the series a fan could ask for.
John | November 9, 2012 11:59 AM | 

This is a great movie for Bond, but only because of the wit, the homages Mendes dared to pay to the classics, and mostly Craig. He never was a good Bond for me until they allow him to become Bond, and as it turns out, he is a quite capable of doing so. In attempt to reinvent Bond they have unmade Bond, and I'm not pleased with how they do away with Bond elements in Casino Royale (which also contains a scene with absolutely ludicrous poker that certainly would make any half-serious poker player in the world cringe and groan) and then more so in Quantum of Solace.
However, in regards to the villain, I don't know how anyone is supposed to take him seriously after enjoying the unsurpassable performance from Heath Ledger. Javier Bardem is fine actor no doubt, but his character is merely a ghost of a great predecessor and he wasn't capable of transforming it into his own. In fact, I detest the third act of Skyfall. It's one thing to pay homage and another to openly plagiarize. I feel it is an embarrassment to the rest of the movie and to the Bond franchise. Hollywood hasn't been able to come up with ideas for a long time, and while Bond isn't technically Hollywood, but if we allow movies of grand Hollywood scales to get away with it, then there would be more.
Jason | November 9, 2012 12:00 PM | 

I'm rather surprised by how much you thought of the movie. I found the winks to the Old Bond to be excessive and a failure to reach the promise of the New Bond Craig embodied. It felt like they were cheating at the end. When [she] was hanging up her coat you could see it. It was Thunderball. The two-plus hours before that was The Dark Knight Rises done even less well. I also found Dench and Craig to be a little lackluster (as compared to Bardem who was absolutely excellent and Fiennes was quite good as well). Maybe it's just me and I wasn't in the mood to like it at midnight.

Also, Moneypenny was never a Bond girl, so if they stick to custom, she'll just be a cheeky secretary.
Dena | November 9, 2012 12:00 PM | 

I have to say, you've really hit it on the head with this movie. As a person who (despite being a movie buff) has never seen a Bond film (the horror!) I absolutely loved it. I know enough about Bond to recognize the classic Aston Martin and know about the exploding pen, but this was simply brilliant. I do wonder if Albert Finney's role was originally meant for Sean Connery, the way he was introduced and the way I was mistaken in thinking that it actually WAS Connery. It might have just been me though.
Dominic | November 9, 2012 12:03 PM | 

Mr. Ebert,

After getting out of the movie, I realized this is the type of Bond movie that could only work every once in a while. I feel like audiences wouldn't be attracted to another slower-paced story like this one anytime soon. So I'm wondering if you feel the same. Loved it though.
Rubin Safaya | November 9, 2012 12:03 PM | 

The central theme of the film is about trust. There have been complaints of the lack of a real "bond girl". I personally find the term out of sync with the times, and appropriately enough they've instead focused on Bond's relationship with the matriarchal M, catalyzed by the film's villain, Silva. Here Javier Bardem does an interesting thing unseen in a Bond movie as far as I can recall: One begins to feel sympathy for Silva, and that simultaneously breeds mistrust of M.

It's always great when as a viewer you're emotionally conflicted, because then the seemingly predictable outcome becomes a bit of a tossup. Who lives? Who dies? And even then that's not the point...

*SPOILERS*

The transition of M comes at an interesting time in our culture when, up until now we seemed to need a female in the role to remind us that women are not mere objects. With the huge upset in the election showing that yes, Americans and particularly women are fed up with the misogyny that has been running free in our culture, Dame Judi Dench has completed her mission and the film makes room for Gareth Malory, another kind of revolutionary figure:

The old fashioned, stuffy politician in a three piece. The kind of Brit who stands resting his weight on his heels, hands in pockets. But there's a twist: He turns out to be far better suited as an on-the-ground strategist than a bureaucrat. If Dench's M is the kind of female leader today's generation wants/needs to see, then Malory is that kind of man.

The thing that always made the Bond movies so dated was that they tended to be a reflection of pop culture of the moment. What sets Skyfall apart is, amidst its intriguing juxtapositions of emerging markets (the tech-score driven Shanghai sequences) and old world stuffy politics (the PM hearings), and desaturated imagery of a weathered Bond aside a 1964 Aston Martin DB5, overlooking a damp Scottish moor, Bond now exists in and out of time, confronted at once by images, attitudes and emotions from his past, present and future.

At 50, James Bond is immortal.
S. Dorey | November 9, 2012 12:07 PM | 

Hi Roger,

Lovely review. I was lucky enough to go to an advanced screener on Wednesday - this was the most interesting and well paced of the Bond movies in recent memory.

The filming of the movie is clever and I feel this will become University course material. The opening sequence was imaginative and brilliant with the foreshadowing elements. Best part is how the actors weren't slapped into too much makeup. They looked like people not props. The only off putting elements were the CG cut ins - there were very noticeable in two scenes and jarred me out of the story.

Only bone to pick with the story is the new Q's lack of foresight when dealing with a computer genius. Sheesh.

Have a great weekend! I will be looking forward to reading more of your articles in the future.

Great movie - going to see it again this weekend.
Anthony | November 9, 2012 12:12 PM | 

Hi Roger,

I haven't gotten a chance to see skyfall yet, but like most guys who had James Bond as a childhood icon, I got a mixed feeling about the Daniel Craig reboot. I thought your review of Quantum of Solace hit the nail on the head: bond is not an action hero and just like when Pierce Brosnan era made the mistake of trying to emulate the 'big explosion' action blockbusters like Die Hard, the Craig era reboot made the mistake of trying to emulate Jason Bourne, the action persona of the 2000's.

So in my opinion its not the actors per se that are the problem, its the fact that producers seem to have lost their footing in trying to keep Bond relevant and I have the perfect solution for them: don't bother keeping him relevant to the modern world- I have seen enough movies where a cellphone opens a car door- instead: all future James Bonds must take place in the past.

Meaning every subsequent story must take place in the period of 1950-1990 and no later.

Let me tell you why I think this is the right idea: aside from the obvious that this is the time when both cold war spying and the British empire were still relevant and understood in terms of popular culture, while today both ideas are a ridiculous anachronism, there is a general nostalgia for this time period today that we have to capitalize on.
What do modern audiences want? Mad Men. Why? Because Mad Men serves a distinct purpose, it allows us to look back to a time which is admired and misunderstood at the same time. The whole reason Mad Men is such a successful premise is that it allows us to look behind the curtain at an era we love but at the same time know little about because sentimentality was so completely different that only now are we able to get a good "behind the curtain" look at what went on in the 50's/60's. Our modern zeitgeist is filled with curiosity about those eras and we desperately want to examine them through our unflinching modern perspective. In short, we want to peek with hindsight into private lives that were off limits due to the sensibilities of those times. So we can now go back and examine sexism and what people thought of health and drinking and smoking, as well as repressive social tendencies, family values etc. etc.

Who better in the world to do this with than James Bond?

I mean thats how we should be making Bond's these days. Daniel Craig or whoever should be acting in the time of the actual Cold War and we should be be allowed our modern peek at what life was like then for such a dashing and exciting guy as James Bond.

Not only that, but its precisely the time that spying was the coolest and most innovate career imaginable. Today a CIA operative sits in a cubicle in Virgina and mans a drone 10,000 miles away. Think about it, back then secret agents had analogue gadgets. This is the real selling point. Name 1 single gadget that you can remember from any bond movie made in the last 15 years. I bet you can't think of 1 gadget!

Thats the thing, its the old school gadgets that were so cool, its all about mechanics like cool lock picking tools, or a walkie talkie built into a wrist watch, or an ejector seat in a car, or even simple things like blow darts or poison tipped cigarettes. Every single bond today of the past 15 years relies on some sort of CGI crap to take the place of mechanical gadgetry. And theres the problem, if I want CGI gadgets, I can go to just about every other movie out there. Bond (up to Skyfall which I haven't seen) is nothing special anymore in terms of gadgets. The Bonds I loved when I was a kid, event the older ones were indistinguishable to me from one another, partly because one of things that captures a young imagination was those the kinds of analogue gadgets that were a hallmark of every film. Who can forget that shoe with a dagger built in or the deadly briefcase in FRWL, the watch that could shoot darts in Moonraker, and fake fingerprints in Diamonds are forever etc. The beauty of setting future bonds in the past is that we can bring back all these great gadgets and many many more because we now know all kinds of things about espionage in that era that they didn't even know at the time.

Plus back then you had real villains, straight up cold war rogue agents. In a retro-modern reboot, the timeframe can place Bond in any location you want and alternate movies between the 50's/60's/70's/80's without continuity. You can find any sort of geopolitical conflict at all anywhere in the world during that 40 year timeframe to set a movie around and insert Bond. I could honestly think of 100 movies loosely based on actual Cold War events where you can insert 007 into a parallel story line. Then comes the part about classic cars and fashions, which honestly film so much better than modern cars and fashions. I mean cars from the 60's just look awesome on film, every director in Hollywood knows this. Modern cars do not look cool in films, thats why so many characters today drive quirky old cars, it instantly adds charm. And you can go back to old fashioned car chases, which seem 10 times more dangerous than todays cars with their safety features.
I mean racing a 60's etype at 100mph is a death wish, which is clear to the audience which can see the tires squalling and the fact that there are not even seatbelts.
Then there are the jokes which Bond used to be famous for. This where Roger Moore really excelled, because you could always tell he was in on it and wasn't taking it seriously. Imagine Daniel Craig uttering one of those old school puns. Its nearly impossible, because Bond is such a serious guy these days, its ironic to think Bond today is closer to Jason Bourne than to Roger Moore. The jokes could be brought back with an additional layer of comedy considering our modern attitudes to things like sexism etc (like in Dujardin's OSS parodies).
And lastly, the CGI can actually be put to good use, because it is so easy these days to use CGI mock-ups to recreate the past. It takes nothing these days to simulate a Paris from 1960 lets say, that can be done in the blink of an eye with CGI, no need to make expensive sets or go on location too much. The vintage interiors are easy enough to replicate, as are the fashions and hairdos.
Jeremy Z. | November 9, 2012 12:16 PM | 

Mr. Ebert,

I must agree with you in many of the points you make. It was a great return of a franchise that seemed to be going nowhere. The last Bond I fully enjoyed was 1997's 'Tomorrow Never Dies' and while I think 'Casino Royale' is a fine Bond, I'm not sure it's a great movie. 'Skyfall' was to me, the reboot of a reboot and it finally set Bond on its feet the way 'Royale' should have. With great style and wonderful supporting characters, not to mention a plot that actually had relevance and poignance, 'Skyfall' reminded me exactly why Bond is quintessentially cool. I found Roger Deakins' cinematography to be some of the best I've seen in years. It added to the story as well as created a visual world to marvel at (I could not help but say "Wow" out loud in the theatre during multiple shots, especially when he sits outside his DB5 in Scotland).

My only real qualms with the film was the dialogue. I felt the Bond I know and love did not exist in this film. Many of the jokes fell flat and he did not have that overzealous cockiness that has become so endearing. I also didn't think the small information we gain about Bond's past was necessary. I wished he remained a mystery "from the shadows" instead of a human with weaknesses. While I enjoyed seeing the vulnerable side (very strange to see him get wounded in the beginning), I wish the old Bond was there too. Likewise, I loved Bardem's character and I loved that he brought a new life to the Bond villain role that seems to have lost its threat in recent films but I wish he had been in the film more and had done more! He was an ex-agent. I wanted a great knife fight or a wild car chase through London.

This was a very different Bond film indeed. One for the 21st century (even though it is a little late coming) and one that will hopefully inform the future of the franchise what Bond is all about. Well done to Mendes and the entire crew for revamping this great series that has given me so much joy over the years.

One last note, I was blown away by Adele's theme song!

Thanks for reading and I am big fan of yours!

- Jeremy Z, NYC - Age 20
rob | November 9, 2012 12:18 PM | 

I think some might constitute a certain name reveal here as a spoiler, since it isn't revealed until the end of the film. (Spoiler alert.) I called it the moment I saw the coat rack, and didn't even think of its similarity to another big name blockbuster this year until I began to write this. So glad you loved the film, although I'm assuming your still good on CASINO ROYALE? (Probably still superior to these eyes, but there's been no better acting in any Bond film, possibly ever, than Javier Bardem's entrance in SKYFALL).
scott Wylie | November 9, 2012 12:21 PM | 

Roger,
It is MI6, as in Military intelligence, not M16, that is a type of rifle.
Troy Hopper | November 9, 2012 12:21 PM | 

Am I the one person in America that really liked Quantum of Solace?

I thought it was better (only slightly though) than Casino Royale and I thought that one was the best Bond movie when it was released.

Daniel Kraig has made the role his. These new movies have focused more on story and action than bad jokes/puns, gizmos, and girls. They're still there, just in the right proportion and, dare I say it, more believable.

QoS was not a perfect movie but it was fast, enjoyable, funny and very entertaining, and for me at least, fulfilling.
Haris | November 9, 2012 12:25 PM | 

I find it strange that nobody is pointing out the plot wholes which were irritating to me, and no not even Bond movie should get away with this.

Starting with the rooftop killing where MI6 is chasing assain from the begging of the movie ... (forgot the name) is killing man in another apartment. That hit made no sense, it was expected by everyone in the room and after it was done they moved a body. Why just not kill him themselves? Silva's plan all along ... nah ... that is just stupid.

Shot on the train, she hits Bond and than no shots. It is not one shot sniper, it was automatic. Comodo dragon eating a guy ... lame. Few more things which I cannot remember now. Like I said it a Bond film but screenplay is just ... shallow. Which remind of another success movie with a lot of holes! ... Hurt Locker. God I hate that film.
rob | November 9, 2012 12:27 PM | 

Argh, I misspelled you're.
Steve Jump | November 9, 2012 12:28 PM | 

I had reservations when I first learned Daniel Craig had been chose to be the post-Pierce Bond. He didn't fit the mold. He was more like a Brit Steve McQueen.

Then I saw him in Spielberg's "Munich" and was comforted. The commanding standout presence, even when sharing the screen with Eric Bana. "Yes," I whispered to myself in the dark. "This one will do nicely."

He was great in "Casino Royale" making us all forget the pretty darn effective Brosnan. Yes, "Quantum" seemed a rush job, with perhaps the series' most colorless villain. But the role was becoming more and more his.

Remember, "Casino" was intended as a reboot of the series, with a Bond that was wet behind the ears and rough edged. Maybe after Dench's sad departure, we'll go back to a male M. The new Q is great, one of the best new British actors, with a Roddy McDowell voice had Roddy been an even better actor. I wanted John Cleland back, but the new Bond doesn't call for such broad comedy.

I remember the heady Sean Connery days when Bond was as big an import as The Beatles. I despaired of the Moore era, was hearted by the new Cold War Dalton period and genuinely enjoyed the Brosnan Rebirth. Craig's Bond is a Phoenix.
Chris Hunneysett replied to comment from David Thomson | November 9, 2012 1:17 PM | 

SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS

Sir, the Tennyson is the essential to our understanding of the film but for these complementary reasons:
The film is absolutely about selling Britain and Mendes underlines how Bond is the best of Britain by drawing a parallel, or possibly an umbilical cord through time between this most modern hero and our most ancient, King Arthur.
It was Tennyson in his 'Idylls of the King' codified the Arthurian legend and Mendes is in effect continuing the tale of Arthur when he returns, when England needs him most.
The pre-title sequence is the Malory's (does that name ring a bell from the movie?) Le Morte d'Arthur, the story of how Arthur is betrayed by a woman, mortally wounded in action and disappears presumed dead in the lake.
During the titles Bond undergoes a symbolic Christian rebirth.
Time passes and when Britain needs Arthur/Bond again and so he returns as legend foretells.
The threat is once again Mordred (Silva) about whom legend is distinctly ambiguous of the familial relationship between he and Arthur.
Thus we have lots of references to M as their joint (metaphorical) mother, (both men are orphans, Arthur also had a fostered upbringing), Severine, the woman they share is also an orphan. Further, Bond is revealed to have a birth mother with a Spanish maiden name, suggesting a further ahem, bond with Silva.
The Merlin figure is of course Q.
I don't believe a director as erudite as Mendes would include these details/imagery/language by coincidence, it would almost impossible to do so by accident. The purpose is to anchor Bond firmly in the tradition of British heroic sacrifice (Tennyson also of course wrote The Charge Of The Light Brigade) and so elevate him from the mundane into the legendary.
These elements incorporated in the subtext will be registered in the audience's mind whether they realise it or not, they will be familiar with the basic elements of Arthurian legend but not necessarily identify them as such in Skyfall but the film will benefit from the cultural echoes regardless.
Yes this is what Joseph Campbell was writing about in The Hero With a Thousand Faces (and far better than I) but what Mendes does is employ the theory to wed Bond to Arthur for Bond's benefit, the movie's benefit and for the audience's benefit.
Thanks for listening.
Chet Roivas | November 9, 2012 1:24 PM | 

Really enjoyed your review Roger, though I continue to be utterly mystified by the positive reaction to this film. I intensely disliked Skyfall and am currently mid-way through writing an article about my reaction to it. I'll avoid spoilers and will be brief, but here's what bothered me.

Casino Royale was a brilliant reboot that, for me, was on a qualitive par with Batman Begins. It drew a very thoughtful line under James Bond, which Skyfall has now calculatedly erased. Sam Mendes clearly thought that he had been tasked with making another reboot, and despite his kind words about it, he has basically undone all of the hard work that Martin Campbell and Paul Haggis did on Casino Royale. Skyfall is a film filled with one-liners, goofy comedy and endless references to previous Bond films. Wasn't all of that stuff the problem in the first place?

And even if you *do* want droll one-liners - despite the fact that they're entirely out of step with the general tone of the new James Bond - Skyfall's quips are utterly embarassing. In addition, it features one of the worst scenes to have ever appeared in a Bond film, in which M and 007 sit in an Aston Martin and deliver a cringeworthy stream of dialogue that wouldn't make the cut in a low-rent family sitcom. I only viewed this sequence through the slim cracks in my fingers, and am totally convinced that even Roger Moore himself would have baulked at an exchange like that.

That said, I definitely don't contest the widely-held belief that Silva is the best Bond villain ever. In fact (neatly enough) I genuinely think that his entrace will stand for a very long time as the most well-written (and directed) scene ever in a Bond film. But Silva is a disgruntled former 00 agent with a grudge against MI6. So was Goldeneye's Alec Trevalyan. He bears some appalling physical scars, earnt whilst working in the field. Much like Renard from The World is Not Enough. And putting him in a lair that looks like no other Bond villain's lair doesn't make it something that it isn't; it's just another dusty old box being ticked.

Fans have stated that the character of James Bond is rendered in a darker shade than ever before here, but that's only because he's gravely injured and occasionally very drunk. People have also said that Skyfall teaches us a great deal about the man's character, which is even more ludicrous. I won't spoil any of this - those revelations come towards the end of the film - but I can comfortably say that I could summarise all of this "fascinating" new information in a single, concise sentence.

The action is boring and the murky finale wouldn't have cut the mustard in a DTV Steven Seagal flick. Blasts of cack-handed dialogue incessently try to make us think that this is a reboot when it isn't ("Old dog. New tricks!") and the film's final scene is basically a warm pat on the back, to reassure long-term fans that Roger Moore's shadow is going to loom large if the next film's director carries on from where Sam Mendes leaves off.

I could go on, but I'll leave it there. All I'll say is that Skyfall has made me want go back and look at Quantum of Solace again, and that's a film that I almost walked out of twice.

Casino Royale invited us to meet a new Bond. Skyfall's Bond is the same as the old one.
Kyle replied to comment from David | November 9, 2012 1:46 PM | 

Not thrilled you included a big spoiler like that in an open forum, but to address your dissatisfaction of the ending's "farewell", that's the character's arc for this story. In the beginning he is questioning himself, his return to service, and his role with MI6. After his experiences with M and Silva, he has no doubt anymore. He has become the self-assured Bond we know in Dr. No. He's ready for the next assignment, because his country needs him and he can move on from anything now because he knows his place in life, and it's as an agent for England. It may feel off to an audience that has warmed to her, but it's the whole point of telling this story. I don't disagree with you, as I felt similar immediately after, but it's relevance came quickly to me. Had I not seen at midnight, I would have caught that meaning a bit quicker, I'm sure.
Jacob | November 9, 2012 1:54 PM | 

Completely agree with the review. One of the best Bond movies ever; certainly the best-directed and probably the best-acted. I can't think of an action movie I've seen with prettier shot composition.

Craig is my new favorite Bond (Connery being the only other actor in the discussion, really). I feel like Skyfall completes full evolution of his character. In Casino Royale he acted like hot shit. He was cocky, young, over-confident. But after Vesper was killed at the end he spiraled out of control in Quantum of Solace; he stops thinking about the mission and is driven by revenge, until he almost spirals out of control completely. And now in Skyfall we see him evolve and mature into the quippy, suave Bond we all knew and love. People hate on Quantum, but I thought Craig's performance made it incredibly compelling.
Kyle replied to comment from Ryan Knapp | November 9, 2012 1:55 PM | 

No. Changing the character's race or gender is just a gimmick. There is no reason for such a departure. There is certainly no reason why filmmakers can't make a Bond-like character that is female or black (or Asian, Hispanic, etc.), but the character was written a certain way and that's who we know and keep coming back to. Remember when Craig was cast and people were mad simply because he was blond? Skyfall shows the importance of staying true the legacy's roots. Jason Bourne's world can have the agent become a different race or gender, but the Scotland born British Secret Agent is a womanizing, alcohol-loving man of action.
Dave Brooke | November 9, 2012 2:05 PM | 

Enjoyed the review. I can't wait to see if this makes it into the top 10 films of the Oscars. It probably wouldn't win, but it'd be just like Dark Knight when folks were saying the Academy should choose it to get younger people to enjoy the ceremony.

I wrote a review of the 1970's comic book, which has far less alcohol and action and a heck of a lot more sex. It's at my site, also directly here: http://www.adventuresinpoortaste.com/2012/11/09/5-reasons-why-james-bond-rules-the-james-bond-omnibus-volume-004-review/
The Grouch | November 9, 2012 2:06 PM | 

"I'm double-posting my review of "Skyfall" to encourage comments, which my main site can't accept." --

We've cracked the human genetic code, we've sent space ships beyond the solar system ... and no one at your Web site can figure out how to add comments to your reviews?
Jordan Jones | November 9, 2012 2:12 PM | 

Roger,
I know you read (at least some) Cracked.com articles from what you have posted on your Facebook. I read one a couple of months ago that brings up a theory that James Bond and 007 are just codenames. This would account for the dramatically different variations of the Bond character. I was wondering what your thoughts might be on this theory.

The same would probably also be applied to M, Q, and Moneypenny.
John Braaten | November 9, 2012 2:25 PM | 

I'm looking forward to seeing it. One important component of a good Bond film is the theme song. I love Adele's tribute to the great ones from the 60's by Shirley Bassey.
Kyle Parker replied to comment from adam mcconnaughey | November 9, 2012 2:48 PM | 

Would he have to refer to himself as a straight computer whiz otherwise?
I was unaware that everything had to be categorized by sexuality...
Matt replied to comment from Andrew Bacon | November 9, 2012 4:17 PM | 

The plot will make sense. It's self-contained.

But the nostalgic references and jokes to old characters, hints of Bond's past, and the overall meta-fiction feeling of the movie might not make as much sense.
Rick Starr | November 9, 2012 4:34 PM | 

Couldn't disagree more. Two hours of mindless violence and drama more appropriate to a Road Runner cartoon. (Tip for Secret Agents: if you are out to kill the guy, then don't stand there for 5 minutes talking to him, because you know he will get away.)

My wife hated it too, although she thought Daniel Craig was handsome. Sadly, there's very little screen time of a Bond girl as eye candy for the guys.
ponce | November 9, 2012 4:50 PM | 

Meh.

Less introspection, more stunts, please.
Jimmy Jacobs | November 9, 2012 5:01 PM | 

I've tweeted about this extensively, so I have nothing new to offer, save this: Daniel Craig may be the perfect Bond, not only for his skill as an actor, which is considerable to be sure, but for the type of man he appears to be. I have never seen him in an interview in which he didn't appear uncomfortable. As if he can't fathom all the fuss. I'm sure he appreciates the success, especially if it allows him to keep doing good work. I'm sure he's grateful for the money and the security, fleeting as it may be, such success brings. And why not? Mostly, though, I think he's a master craftsman who believes that fame and stardom are empty distractions from the covenant of cinema. His job is to give me and you a movie, and a performance, worth seeing. If we are entertained, enlightened, or simply taken away, then he's done his job well. Everything else is nonsense. I can't think of a better man to breath new life into a character that frankly had nowhere else to go. In fact, doesn't this seem to be the new Bond's philosophy as well? Getting the job done is what's important; everything else is just a distraction.
Rob | November 9, 2012 5:29 PM | 

Mr Ebert, I just wanted to know how much your writing has meant to me over the years. Im 35 and have been reading you since I was 12. I live in Col and never made it to your film showings and lectures in Boulder. I always said "Oh, Ill go next year, etc." Its a huge regret in my life. I was so thrilled when you started writing again after your hiatus. Your impact on my life and my love of film has been enormous. Thanks.
sam cady | November 9, 2012 5:35 PM | 

Haven't seen this one but have to mention that I welcomed Daniel Craig joyously since it seemed to me the one Bond quality that was there in the books was completely missing in the movies - his thuggishness.
There's a wonderful scene in one book - can't remember the title - where the heroine is being menaced by gangsters and, quite by coincidence, Bond knocks on her door. When she answers it, her first response to his appearance is that he's another one of the crooks.
Looking forward to seeing this movie.
BTW, have you read the New Yorker review? When will they lighten up?

Ebert: Thuggishness. Yes!
Bill Hays | November 9, 2012 5:54 PM | 

First, I wouldn't attach too much credibility to "the next actor to play Bond." EON Productions screen tests every British actor, every Australian actor, every actor who travels through London, and a few others. Mel Gibson, James Brolin, Hugh Jackman... so many actors have screen-tested for Bond and weren't.

SPOILERS for Skyfall

I was disappointed. Finally a Bond film set in London and Scotland, a Bond film where Q is recast with a quirky, likable actor. Lots of reasons I should have loved it.

First, the plot. If you set off a bomb, if you are identified as a terrorist attacking London, what's going to happen? You're going to be arrested or shot. No other options. If Silva wanted revenge on M, he did it the wrong way.

Second, the music. Hated it.

Third, Casino Royale showed us a relationship between Bond and Vesper. Then, in Quantum of Solace, Bond decided he didn't want relationships any more. The third entry in the series was disappointing. Straw Dogs in Scotland? The relationship between Bond and M wasn't worth a movie. It could have been. There are so many ways they could have done it.

Fourth, if you have machine guns in your car, why don't you take out the helicopter as it lands?

Fifth, I could see MI6 having a place to hold prisoners beneath London. But how can they move the entire operation down there? How do people get in and out?

What they needed was a believable plot. An ex-agent that M decided to terminate wants revenge. Fine. But if the villain is a terrorist, and his bombs are appearing on CNN, why didn't five military helicopters follow Bond out of London?

I understand not wanting to remake a movie they made ten years and two Bonds ago. They got serious with this one. If you sit down and diagram the villain's plan, it was to embarrass M. But M was past retirement age. She should have retired gracefully from MI6 and the villain's plan started after she was a private citizen starting a new life. Ruin THAT life.

END OF SPOILERS
Mike Stone | November 9, 2012 5:58 PM | 

Contains Spoilers

The best part of the picture was the Dan Kleinman main title.

After I went home I realized all the things not to like about the movie, mostly the plot.

1. The Turkish bazaar chase. Although I disagree with his review of this picture, I am a diehard Ebert fan and I habitually yell "Fruit Cart" every time a fruit cart gets demolished. In this scene it was, Fruit Cart! Fruit Cart! Fruit Cart! Fruit Cart!

2. The train sequence was the second best part of the movie.

3. Eve Moneypenny, was she a mole and did she try to kill Bond? This and many other opportunities for subtlety were wasted.

3. What was the point of having the woman tied up with the shot glass of Scotch whiskey placed atop her head? Who was she? Was she a romantic interest of Bond's? Why was Bond assisted by the Royal Marines now, but not during the final scene at Skyfall?

4. Why was Bond and M left to fend for themselves at Skyfall even though Q knew they were there all by themselves?

5. Other Bond villains were independently wealthy (e.g. Ernst Stavro Blofeld). Where did Bardem get the resources (helicopters, police cars) to pursue his personal vendetta against M? What criminal or terrorist organization would have allowed this? What was the objective of the organization? At least SPECTRE wanted to shake down the world's leaders for billions of dollars.

6. What was the point of boobytrapping Skyfall (again, as opposed to calling in the marines)? Was this an homage to the A-Team?

7. They kill off M so perfunctorily, why no funeral? No flags at half staff? No recognition of her service to the Crown? Was her death kept secret?

8. Where did they get this Q? He reminds me of the kid geeks in the Get Smart movie.

9. If the villains have already hacked MI6, what's the point of stealing the hard drive with the secret data at the beginning of the movie?

10. Why did Bond cling to the bottom of the elevator in Shanghai? Why didn't he just take the next elevator?
Rodney L. replied to comment from Jordan Jones | November 9, 2012 6:13 PM | 

I remember reading the Cracked article as well. Personally I like this view of the James Bond franchise. It adds a believable layer to the series. After all isn't it more ridiculous to believe that every single Bond film is about the exact same man? I've yet to see Skyfall but from reading Ebert's review it seems that the script is saying that this Bond is supposedly the same operative stretchign across all movies.

Somehow I just can't see Daniel Craig's Bond as this https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRaDQZGFdBs
Blonde, James Blonde | November 9, 2012 7:19 PM | 

I liked Casino Royale, as a film, I really did, but it just wasn't a "Bond" movie to me, and Daniel craig is just not 007. 006, maybe, but...Casino Royale just proved to me that James Bond, as we knew him, really is dead. Let me reitterate, I thought Casino Royale was a really good film...it just wasn't what I wanted from a JAmes Bond movie. So, when someone gushes over Daniel Craig and says this is the "best Bond yet," I sadly have to decide to ignore the reviews and the comments...and see it for myself some time next year, when it's in the 5 dollar sale bin at the local rental store.
Tom | November 9, 2012 7:33 PM | 

You should do this more often. Often I'd like to discuss your reviews but instead I have to settle for the discussion of your review on Fark.com (all the best reviews get their own thread including this one)
John Nguyen | November 9, 2012 7:40 PM | 

Sam Mendes. That is all.
Craig Barron | November 9, 2012 7:42 PM | 

Roger; Saw "Skyfall" today on opening day in IMAX. I was going to comment that in the first edition of your review you said that Daniel Craig had played Bond unconvincingly in "Casino Royale" and "Quantum of Solace". You had stated that he was a the best Bond since Sean Connery. You have since corrected your review and obviously caught your error. But that being said I agree with you in your review this is the best Bond film since "On Her Majesty's Secret Service". In IMAX it's spectacular. I myself wrote a review on IMDB and stated that this is the one of the best films of the year and might be the first Bond film with a shot at an Oscar nomination. Best villian ever and Daniel Craig in my opinion tops Connery as the all time best Bond.b
Baz Taylor | November 9, 2012 7:51 PM | 

Sorry Mr Ebert but I have to disagree.

I had some hopes that this would be better than the first two Craig movies (hoping it would be a 007 film for once), but it was over long, full of very un-Bondian moments and lots of padding.

We come to James Bond because of the larger than life nature of the character and his adventures, so to see him down to earth and ordinary is doing a massive disservice to both the character and the fans.
Christian Schaaf | November 9, 2012 7:57 PM | 

This month, I was twice deeply disappointed with the global press and their judgement. The first occasion was the US elections which were celebrated as a tied game over and over. How stupid. The demographic background was known for a long time and now it is revealed as a big secret. The effort to dramatize a weak show was evident. And that leads us to number two...
The second disappointment was the common hurray about Skyfall. It is true that Bardem is one of the best Bond villains ever. But what a stupid plot! Or is there any plot at all? Resulting in a movie that has a nice opening scene and an acceptable finale. But the rest is pure boredom. No eroticism, no political conflict worth mentioning, no suspense at all. An extremely weak plus predictable and highly improbable plot (what man, regardless who he is, would e.g. be able to recruit a private army in a European country on purely private motives). Hopeless! Every episode of "Homeland" does a lot better. "Skyfall" though might be a good title for a Bond movie that gives up the core of what Bond movies used to be about: A great English picaresque novel on the canvas of global politics. The only thing about it that is really global is its echo in the press. Which is the q.e.d. for the my first statement.
Patricia | November 9, 2012 8:09 PM | 

Not much left to say after all those comments, but I, too, enjoyed your review. I had to chuckle when you mentioned 3 fruit carts, as my mind grabbed hold of you and the late Mr. Siskel making fun of the inevitable collisions of chase scene vehicles with fruit carts. I sat in the movie earlier today, and thought, "the fruits carts" while chuckling to myself then. Thanks for the double chuckles and all your wonderful words over the years.
Randy Masters | November 9, 2012 9:47 PM | 

Skyfall was worth my $8, no doubt.

Excellent Bond. Mediocre villain.
Bill Hays replied to comment from sam cady | November 9, 2012 9:49 PM | 

Sam said, Bond knocks on her door. When she answers it, her first response to his appearance is that he's another one of the crooks.

The Spy Who Loved Me

Supposedly written as a memoir by the lady in question, but Fleming spent his cutomary time at Goldeneye to write it.
Brad | November 9, 2012 9:59 PM | 

The first half is so unbelievabaly cool and absorbing. The build to the villian is way superior to any Bond film before it. Was asking myself -- can they keep this going for another hour? The answer is no I'm afraid. A little past the midway point the film starts lose much of it's smart bite. The sleek forcefulness of the action scenes early all but dissapear later. Formulaic action/showdown choices are made that are not worthy of the film's stellar first half. Still very good.
Sergei Kochkin | November 9, 2012 10:29 PM | 

I disagree. This is the worst Bond film to date. A big fat bore. Rogue agent hates "M" whom I find caustic and annoying. He hunts her down as Bond tries to protect her. He fails and she dies and we now have a new 'M" in Ralph Fiennes...good. Not much of a story here. No memorable Bond girl. Few cool gadgets. What made the other 007 movies so good is we usually had a villain with a massive master plot to rule the world. This is just a vendetta movie. Craig is too scraggly and just doesn't conjure up the suave 007 agent we are all used to. This movie fails to cause us to care about Bond, "M", "Q", or Moneypenny. The Bond franchise is dead! This is something else not worthy of the 007 franchise name. Not even as good as a Bourne film. Influenced too much by Black Knight is my guess.
Tabish Dalvi | November 9, 2012 10:33 PM | 

Iv seen Skyfall as it had already been released in India a week before. Mandes is one of the film makers i highly revere and, i must say, he certainly doesn't disappoint. One of the first thing i noticed is that he brings a lot of 'theatre' into a few spectacular scenes. All the performances are good and it is a very grounded movie; not too over the top considering it is a James Bond movie.
Rachid Farhat | November 9, 2012 10:58 PM | 

Dear Roger
I have to agree with a lot of these comments, Solace was a very good movie, I think you should give it another look. I think Daniel Craig authenticity as Bond, plus his great acting carried the movie. I was never a Bond fan but I always liked Craig, and he made a fan of Bond.
On a personal note, I look forward to your reviews, I have been a fan of yours for over twenty years, and I am thrilled to read your reviews.
Hope this finds you well
Rachid
GOW replied to comment from David | November 9, 2012 11:22 PM | 

WHY would you drop such a massive spoiler in a comment for a movie that just opened? That's completely obnoxious.
Rosie | November 9, 2012 11:28 PM | 

"I saw it and it took me back to the old days of Connery, and Moore. "


This DOES NOT make me feel better. The fact that "SKYFALL" is a throwback to the old Connery and Moore movies makes my stomach hurt. Connery and Moore belong to the past. Daniel Craig's Bond has NO BUSINESS trying to recapture the style of past Bond films. No business at all. The Bond franchise should move forward, not backwards. And its portrayal of the female characters in this movie does not help at all.
George | November 10, 2012 12:19 AM | 

M eye six, not M sixteen.

Ebert: This is strange. To my eye, it looks correct. Could this be a function of browsers?

Here is m-eye-six on Chrome: MI6.

Here is m-sixteen: M16.
Bill Jones | November 10, 2012 12:27 AM | 

I've been avoiding the web all day lest I see spoilers, but I have an alternate theory of what is going on in "Skyfall."

Many here are complaining that the Bond in "Casino Real" didn't feel like a real Bond, or that "Skyfall" is Yet Another Reboot. I didn't realize it until the end when they introduced Moneypenny and we saw the coat, the banter, the leather-padded door and the new male M in his now-familiar chambers.

"Casino Real" didn't jump back to the "Dr. No" stage in Bond's life, but years before! And now we're back to the original stage in Bond's life as we first saw him, albeit set fifty years later.

As if to to confirm, we see the familiar iris/gun barrel scene is at the END of the movie.

In this context, Judi Dench as M was not a bold recasting of M, but rather a predecessor. And thuggish "Casino Real" Bond is just young Bond before he's learned a few hard lessons. And "Skyfall" Bond has burned his childhood home and buried his "Mother", therefore grown up into the Bond we are more familiar with.

The old ways, in other words; everything old is new again.

Or maybe not, since nobody else has seemed to think of this :)
grege | November 10, 2012 12:45 AM | 

If you, like I, thought that Bond's father's side-by-side "old hunting rifle" was surely a smoothbore shotgun and not a rifle with a spiral-grooved barrel, check this out from Wikipedia.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_rifle

"A double-barreled rifle or double rifle is a type of sporting rifle with two barrels instead of one, available in either side-by-side or over-and-under barrel configurations. Double rifles are one of the family of combination guns. In general, double rifles are much more expensive than the more common magazine-repeater rifles, and, owing to the large-calibre cartridges commonly used, have to withstand very high levels of recoil. Because of their ability to fire two quick shots, double rifles are often used for the hunting of dangerous game in Africa. While today double rifles are typically associated with African big game hunting, they saw their most extensive use during the colonial period in India."
John Braaten replied to comment from Anthony | November 10, 2012 12:50 AM | 

"The whole reason Mad Men is such a successful premise is that it allows us to look behind the curtain at an era we love but at the same time know little about because sentimentality was so completely different that only now are we able to get a good "behind the curtain" look at what went on in the 50's/60's. Our modern zeitgeist is filled with curiosity about those eras and we desperately want to examine them through our unflinching modern perspective"

Good post! I'd go back ten years earlier, when Ian Fleming was plying his trade.
Opening Scene: (Berlin, April, 1945) Bond evades German and Russian troops in order to extract a Nazi scientist and a double agent.
John Braaten | November 10, 2012 1:35 AM | 

BEST OF BOND
Best Bond: Connery, Sean Connery
Best Bond Girl: Emma Peel...er I mean Teresa Di Viscenzo
Best Bond Villain: Either Blofeld or his cat
Best Bond Henchmen: Red Grant and Rosa Klebb
Best Recurring Character: Q
Best Gadget: Briefcase (From Russia With Love)
Best Vehicle: Aston Martin (Goldfinger)
Best Stunt: Union Jack parachute jump
2nd Best Bond: George Lazenby
Best Theme Song: Goldfinger
Most Dastardly Plan: Blofeld's plot to hold the world ransom by threatening to destroy its agriculture with his army of brainwashed women
Best Quip: "Now the whole world will know you died scratching my balls" (Casino Royale)
Best Villain's Demise: Christopher Walken falling off the Golden Gate Bridge (A View To A Kill)
Best Bond Parody: "Austin Powers, Man of Mystery"
Best Bond Movie: and The Shaken Martini goes to...
"From Russia With Love"
Leslie Adams | November 10, 2012 2:02 AM | 

I have to admit that I thought I had seen it all in terms of a Bond film. I was not expecting this much tension and sharp drama. I complain that there are too many sequels and reboots as it is but to be blown away by the 23rd entry in a franchise is unheard of.
Phoenix Grey replied to comment from Jordan Jones | November 10, 2012 2:25 AM | 

I think it's a notion cooked up by people who are confused by the cast changes and have too much of a fixation with continuity, in regard to a film series that is essentially milking all it can from the source material of the novels.

The books are clear that there is only one James Bond, and have linked character development between installments, sadly the movies have done away with that, causing all this confusion which leads people to clutch at straws to preserve their precious continuity.

Thankfully, Skyfall puts a hole in the 007 code name theory with the origin plot line and the graveyard shots. Chaos reigns!
Justin Ward | November 10, 2012 3:44 AM | 

Have to strongly disagree with your review. Daniel Craig's Bond has degenerated into a miserable thug with a slight speech impediment, not the invincible Indiana Jones-type figure of old - and it's because of this that Bond now finds himself competing with (and losing to) Jason Bourne, John Maclean, etc. etc. And I don't understand how anybody can even watch Judi Dench as M and maintain disbelief. She's hopeless.
there | November 10, 2012 3:55 AM | 

Wow. Opening night here in san francisco. Gorgeous presentation...the best location scenes ever...Shanghai and Macau, or was it Macao? They give the film a fabulous quality.
This is an extremely entertaining film with no dead spots. Very strong script...It gets under your skin...very positive audience reaction...we had a lot of fun. This is not a gadget movie. A reviewer above said Craig doesn't look good in suits. That's the most absurd thing I've heard in years.
I'd say about 99% of the men watching the film would kill to look as good as he does.
So here's my idea, Robert. The next Bond film...have Sean Connery play the villain.
Andy | November 10, 2012 4:57 AM | 

Whow, that LAST ACT...

I absolutely loved it because it unexpectedly turned around something that bothered me till that point;

During the whole movie I was mentally yawnig because of all the computer stuff. Someone "being a computer genius" or a "code being very sophisticated" is simply something not easily transported in a movie scene. All I see in these scenes are people typing a bit, looking at giant screens and going blabla about technological details, but the viewer doesnt´t "feel" or "understand" any of this, it´s completely meaningless (some movies at least spice things up, think of Hugh Jackman in Swordfish ;-).

So I thought the idea off leaving all this behind and beating the computer-villain on a non-technological ground where he has no control was absolutely brilliant.

Of course it´s also extremely unrealistic and unplausible as most of this movie´s plot details: Imagine Skyfall´s housekeeper having sold ALL the guns, gotten rid of the dynamite and being on vacation - would Bond and M have constructed bows and arrows to fight their enemies?

I haven´t read all previous comments, but has someone already pointed out yet that ultimately, the "plan" completely fails as M DOES get hurt and killed after all?
Scott Poston | November 10, 2012 5:56 AM | 

Mr. Ebert.

I've loved your reviews for years and this one is no different. This is probably the best made Bond movie in years, maybe ever. That doesn't necessarily mean every Bond fan will take to the film, but I'd call it a masterpiece. As another fan noted, it's good enough to gather a nomination or two at this year's AA Awards. I'm thinking Deakins will finally win one.

I loved it.

Great screenplay (thought not necessarily a great story)
dtg | November 10, 2012 7:19 AM | 

Could you stop writing movie reviews for a minute and comment on the election? Please. Some of us are waiting, you know.

Ebert: I was thinking there must be one reader like you.
Bill Hays | November 10, 2012 7:27 AM | 

One of the things a Bond script needs is a logical plot. OK, there have been plenty of Bond films without one.

SPOILERS

Silva had a good start. Proficiency with computers. However, why blow up a government building in London? It guarantees that your photo will be all over CNN. If Silva had waited until M (Judi Dench) retired and gone after her, he could have obtained his revenge without the collateral damage. He could have kept his private island.

The story line wasn't big enough. Nothing that sticks in our imagination. On "Homeland," Nicholas Brody was tortured for eight years. On "Arrow," the hero was tortured so much, twenty percent of his body was scar tissue. There's no reason for a Bond movie to copy concepts currently on American TV. They have the budget to do bigger and better.

A forver agent who wanted revenge? Sean Bean as Janus in Goldeneye. That movie showed us how Bond was involved. In Skyfall, we don't see any of it.

Apparently Bond was shot in the chest with a rifle. Didn't see any believable reaction from that. The script should have shown Bond's reaction and created more sympathy for Silva's motivations.
David Thomson replied to comment from Chris Hunneysett | November 10, 2012 8:19 AM | 

That's fascinating! I had thought that Mallory must be a reference to something but the only Mallory I could think of was the one that climbed Everest and died. And that didn't make sense. I'll have to go and check out the King Arthur stuff... Thanks!
Miles Blanton | November 10, 2012 8:23 AM | 

I can't recall a Bond that spent this much time in Britain. One is reminded of the awsome opening of "The World Is Not Enough", which also developed the "hurt throughout the movie" theme this one did well with. I was very impressed with Skyfall, needless to say.
MaxwellZ | November 10, 2012 8:30 AM | 

Hi Roger,
Just saw it last night and loved it - almost as much as Casino Royale. I reviewed it here (http://www.theyoungfolks.com/review/maxwells-movie-review-skyfall/13516) if you would like to read my thoughts - any feedback is greatly appreciated.

Did you enjoy the Third Man reference in the sewer chase sequence? I certainly loved the mirroring of Vesper's death in CR and M's death in Skyfall. Certainly ready for another fifty years.
Darren Lockhart | November 10, 2012 8:59 AM | 

The hype is right, in my opinion.

If not the best, it's definitely the best since the Connery era. I'm also sticking by my opinion that Craig is the best Bond since Connery, and he proved it big time in this one. Anyone who had doubts about him in the role should be eating crow right about now. I may just go see it again and I haven't wanted to do that with a Bond film in years.

And a great scenery chewing performance from Javier Bardem as well.

The biggest problem with Quantum of Solace was the cinematography. While not on the the same level as CR, I didn't have any major problems with it beyond that.
Justin Ward | November 10, 2012 9:47 AM | 

'Skyfall' contains the line, "What's going on?". Two stars should be knocked off for this alone. If a character needs exposition, the character's a waste of space.
Maggie | November 10, 2012 10:41 AM | 

Daniel Craig - stunning looking as ever with his slightly grey stubble, Aston Martins,a great Bond villain very well played by Bardem, Walter PPK's & Dame Judy Dench how can you lose?

Love how this Bond film takes on a fresh approach and injects so love towards our gay brothers and sisters. Bond films finally are in the 21st century well, well done.
Jeffrey Stewart | November 10, 2012 10:57 AM | 

Mr. Ebert's primary criticism of Quantum was that James Bond isn't an action hero. In this review he raves about the chase and action sequences. There's an apparent contradiction here.

Quantum was a very good movie. I was through with James Bond when I happened to catch Casino Royale on commercial TV. Then I had to see the whole thing. That led me to Quantum, which I thought was another very good Bond movie.

Mr. Ebert argues the villain makes the movie. Casino and Quantum had very good villains. Mathieu Amalric as Dominic Greene was a worthy Bond adversary. Who didn't enjoy him being left in the desert with a quart of motor oil?
Mike | November 10, 2012 11:09 AM | 

"Just as Christopher Nolan... Batman..."

Right there, you convinced me SKYFALL was not something I wanted or needed to see.

I'm a Batman fan. Have been one all my life. Hate the pretentious, while simultaneously dunder-headed, Nolan movies.

Ooh, watch Michael Caine cry --- Look at how boring Catwoman (We won't call her that, 'cause it would be silly) can be!

So, THAT is what THIS is? I've never given a half-wit for James Bond.

SKYFALL? Eh.
Tony | November 10, 2012 11:12 AM | 

I've never read the original Bond books by Fleming... just never got around to it, I suppose.

My experiences with Bond were the movies, and I grew up with Roger Moore as the first Bond I knew. Even the golden standard that old-timers revere, Sean Connery himself, wasn't Bond to me. As a child, I saw some of the older Bond films, but they seemed dated although they were only ten years old. Connery to my young eyes was an incredibly ugly man.

In recent films, maybe Daniel Craig's portrayal is closer to the source material (I wouldn't know), but he's not Bond to me. Moore was always suave, and he seemed above the menacing thuggery that Craig projects.

I'll see Skyfall, but it will be more for an interest in Javier Bardem's performance. He was such a mesmerizing freakshow in No Country for Old Men.
Chris Vosburg | November 10, 2012 11:20 AM | 

Re the iris lens/ gun barrel thing:

I'm relieved to discover that I wasn't the only one who believed that it was a iris aperture (as in a camera lens), until a gun-owner friend finally took pity and wised me up--only a couple of years ago-- that it was a gun barrel, and those helical lines are the microgrooves cut into the barrel to give the bullet a bit of spin (rifling).

Man, I felt like such a dope [laughing], but turns out I was in good company, huh?
Elliot Jackson | November 10, 2012 11:20 AM | 

The Bond jumped the shark. Not sure what movie everyone else was watching. Javier Badem was channeling Stewie Griffin (is he a megalomaniac killer? Is he gay and does not know it?"). Every line from Judi Dench's mouth was a cliche. Bond has morphed from fresh face to has-been FatherTime in three films.

None of the chase scenes approached the classic opening of Casino Royale. All those shots of Bond standing in front of a car, house, etc... with legs spread. Is he taking a piss? Is that why we get that pose time and time again? The homo-erotic posing shots of Craig were over the top while there were barely any of women in similar states of undress.
Daniel replied to comment from adam mcconnaughey | November 10, 2012 12:20 PM | 

Does it matter that he is gay? Is it central to his character? If not what does it matter, or are you just trolling for drama?
Aaron | November 10, 2012 12:44 PM | 

Mr. Ebert,

One of the things that I enjoyed about this film is that it completes the origin trilogy of the Bond character. Since the first of this series of films, I've had the feeling that this was the story of how the Bond we met in Dr. No became that character this is a younger, brasher person. And with Skyfall we see the Bookend that sets the stage for future Bond stories, ones that might be a little more familiar to us. (Though I hope they keep the surprises coming, I enjoy the way they have deconstructed and rebuilt the franchise)

That's my take on a perfectly enjoyable film.
Spats007 | November 10, 2012 1:04 PM | 

Skyfall is not a return to "classic Bond"; it is rather a completely unique hybrid of elements from the earlier films and the darker tone and character of Fleming's later novels (which have been hinted at, but never fully explored before now). Thematically, the film is a Freudian examination of two orphaned sons and the cold, manipulative and abandoning surrogate mother they share. Bond's trademark self-confidence is shattered by a monumental betrayal by M., who seems to have lost her moral compass. And Bardem's Silva offers a manic and terrifying glimpse of what Bond may well become if he continues on his self-destructive path.

It is strange and disturbing to see Bond as anything less than the tuxedoed superhero that drew me to the cinema religiously every other year for decades. I don't consider Skyfall the best Bond film by any stretch (for me, that would be Goldfinger, followed by OHMSS and Casino Royale), but it is certainly the most disturbing and thought-provoking. I respect it for those reasons. I also pray the folks at Eon don't try it again for a very long time. There's a place yet in the world for the glorious popcorn days of exploding pens and space stations.
Gary in Phoenix, Arizona | November 10, 2012 1:44 PM | 

As a debut to reviews-with-comments this thread is an eye-opener. I am sorry I read the comments before seeing SKYFALL. Henceforth I won't read any comments until I've seen the reviewed movie. Unfortunately many of your posters suffer from what Tom Wolfe called "information compulsion," and though some prewarned with the screaming-caps word SPOILERS, some did not. You yourself have sometimes included spoilers, but you are good about not discussing details that people going to see the movie are better off not knowing beforehand. Some of your posters do not have that sensibility.
Anthony replied to comment from John Braaten | November 10, 2012 2:07 PM | 

Thanks! And yeah I think you're right no reason you can't take it back to the earliest days of the cold war. Although I think there should be a definitive post-war/cold-war setting, otherwise you run the risk of encroaching on the whole wwii action genre. Plus lets not forget cars and bond girls would probably both look more sexy and interesting from the 50's/60's. And I forgot to mention the very best part- the producers can still have plenty of product placement and at the same time make it look elegant! No reason Bond can't be having a Heinecken even back then...
keith carrizosa | November 10, 2012 2:08 PM | 

I really like the new direction the Bond films were taking, as I saw the beginning sort of film-noir(?) type of feeling or Casino Royale. I didn't watch Quantum of Solace but I did see this one, and I also liked the sort of shooting in the shadows bits and things like that yet. And I also do the think the comparison with Nolan's Batmans were correct. Speaking of which, they both sort of have the same style of directing style which is sort of quick cutaways to little angles, which might make it hard to follow (or more re-watchable, depending on your view), and I guess everything sort of seemed in place but I felt something was missing. And my only thought was this "this movie had to have been shot on digital.'' And it turns out it was.

For f*ck's sake, people, this a Bond movie, don't cheap out on the film. It was shot on IMAX, but not on IMAX Film. Shooting on film would have greatly impacted the effect of this movie much more, which already had a pretty great impact on me; probably wouldn't have felt something was missing if it were shot on film.

Note to Mendes or next director of Bond movie....

Shoot on film!

Like the noir aspects but shoot on film.
Chris Hunneysett replied to comment from David Thomson | November 10, 2012 2:23 PM | 

Ah, except that in the novels Bonds we learn that his father died on a mountaineering expedition tho' not, I think on Everest.
I look forward to hearing any further thoughts
Nick | November 10, 2012 2:36 PM | 

That was a good review. Well written and informative, without spoilers. This is exciting.
Mohamed | November 10, 2012 2:58 PM | 

I agree with Ebert's review of the movie that this is an excellent Bond film and a great action movie overall. Daniel Craig has added "humanity" to the character of Bond instead of the usual invincibility played by Connery and Brosnan. The movie is visually stunning especially the entire scene in the skyscraper in Shanghai when Bond leaches to the elevator to follow an assassin. Mendes adds such interesting details while Bond is hanging to the elevator that you actually feel your arm muscles burning out as Bond struggles to hang. The injury to his chest did not help either.

In a very “colorful” scene, clearly well planned, Bond hides in the shadows while the light infused commercial bouncing off the skyscraper is putting the viewers in a hypnotic mode. In a fast paced hand combat sequence shown only as a silhouette, Bond disposes of his enemy in a manner that goes well with the title.

Indeed, there are moments where you have to suspend logic especially when the destruction of London did not seem to have any impact on a hearing session where M was being grilled by government officials. One would imagine that such high profile characters would have been escorted against terrorist attacks that plagued the city.

The most intriguing part of the movie, which seemed abrupt but enjoyable, was the idea and the theme of returning to the old ways and visiting the past. In the climax scene of Skyfall, Bond ends up with M in his childhood house where we learn a few personal things about Bond which reinforces the lack of his invincibility. In a remarkable line, M says that orphanes often made the best agents. Bond smiles.

Armed with a rifle and dynamite, Bond fights the villain and his army in a thrilling scene of gunshots, explosions and finally death. It would not be a spoiler to say that there will be a definite golden future for more “human” Bond played by Craig.
Nera Ragno replied to comment from Blonde, James Blonde | November 10, 2012 3:34 PM | 

I will always remember being at the movies 50 years ago seeing the opening frames of Dr. No: The Music; The Agent; The Gun - The Very First Poster that birthed the series. Images and sounds seared into my mind. Connery has always been my favorite Bond probably because he was the first. I, nevertheless, enjoyed Moore and Brosnan as they impeccably exuded Bond's literary character.
And now Craig in Skyfall - all those joyous feelings from Dr. No flooded into the fibers of my being from Skyfall's opening sequence all the way through to the next assignment in Bond's hand.
Why is Skyfall so great? Bond movies have always been heavy on techno plot with a bigger than life hero externally conquering all the nasties hurled at him: a bullet, a hat, and a subway train crashing down upon him. And let's not forget sharks and beautiful assassins. Master villains lust to conquer the world ushering in doom upon unsuspecting humanity. All are essence of Bond movies. Creating a context that always leaves subplot holes, which only a novel or a series of novels can fill.
Skyfall exceeds the other Bond movies because of the internal subplots. (We must omit Dr. No since the first series' installment cannot and should not include all that was, all that is, or all that will be.) (And we must not compare the external fun & over-the-top factors we expect and enjoy between Bond movies.) Skyfall's internal subplots do not stop with the main character. They include those for Moneypenny and M. And since plot is character in action, we must include subplots for the new Q and the new M, excellently written for the short time on screen. This is wonderfully brought out in the small back-story of the new M and the gun finally in his hand. All the dialogue about the new M establishes his character as he sways authority over Bond. Then we behold the new M is more than a person behind a desk issuing orders. But then he becomes the man behind the desk. Full circle.
Subplots mature the main plot. And Skyfall's Villain's back-story establishes his character quite well. This Villain does not desire to conquer the world. He lusts to regain himself, which he knows he can never do. The only meal to satiate his hunger is the humiliation, defeat, and destruction of the cause of his existence - M. He disregards his own part in what brought him to his final existence. M is guilty. (Perhaps more so than her orders to leave a man dying or ordering Moneypenny to take the shot.) But the Villain is also guilty. He has given himself an impossible task. He is tortured externally and internally. Evil will kick a dog as well as kill a slave henchwoman. So how much death and distruction will be splattered across the screen before Bond thwarts M's personal doom? Bond is not just fighting against the establishment of 'A World Without England'; he is fighting to protect an iron (maiden?) What she did to the Villain she did to Bond. The difference between Bond and the Villain is how they react to her decisions. Nevertheless, the Villain's scars are much deeper than Bond's scars. Could or did Bond have a hint of empathy over the Villain's plight?
Skyfall's Villain is different than the first franchise villains. Those old villains were molded from the cold war. Russia was Russia; evil was evil; villains were villains. Skyfall establishes a 'Criminal Minds' villain who experienced a tragic, compelling event shooting him off into dastardly deeds. Much like the Green Goblin. Do I see shades of Stan Lee storytelling?
But this Bond exceeds the other stories because of Bond's back-story, aptly given to and by the story title. Surprise! Skyfall! Xanadu no less? Were there any good memories? Not in this installment at least. Was there a Rosebud in Bond's past? Was it his father's old shotgun? Will he go back for it? Did he take it? Will it be something else? Skyfall shows how a person is molded from the past. And, cutting off the shotgun barrel is as indicative of cutting off the past as the destruction of Skyfall itself. James Bond was just James Bond before Skyfall. After Skyfall, James Bond is a more quid essential James Bond.
No more to be said than: go see how the writers wove a wonderful franchise story all from and through Skyfall.
aka, Nera Ragno; She of the Forbidden Zone
Bill Hays | November 10, 2012 3:41 PM | 

I don't mind putting a little effort into writing about "Skyfall" because the folks at EON (Barbara, Michael) and Columbia (Sony) might check out his blog for clues about where Bond should go next.
My comments aren't so much about "Skyfall" as where the next Bond should take us.

SPOILERS for "Skyfall"
As Daniel Craig ages, the women he attracts would probably change. That's why the producers wanted George Lazenby and the younger versions of Pierce Brosnan and Timothy Dalton. By the time they actually got in the role, they were a decade older.
So, a younger Bond after Craig. Maybe a Bond who hasn't earned his 00 number yet.
Craig's Bond grew up in Scotland. His parents didn't own Skyfall, did they? Tenants who took care of the house on behalf of the real owners? Craig said he hated living there and (possibly) lured Silva there knowing what would happen.
After his parents died, Bond was sent to a boarding school. Served in the Navy, was recruited into the Secret Service after World War II where he fought Soviets during the Cold War. A younger Bond needs a different history. I liked the original Connery take that Bond was a poorly paid civil servant who won a lot of money gambling and spent it as fast as it came in, always expecting to be killed on his next assignment.
Are there still gambling clubs in London? Places you have to pay thousands to join? Where Bond would win a lot of oil money during the summer months? Where dirving an Aston Martin wouldn't be unusual.
Producers think, if the hero has an expensive car, it needs to be destroyed to show how ruthless the villains are. I hate that. Bond would care as much about his car as the women in his life.
"Skyfall" is a good entry in the list of Bond movies. Don't think they've found the right director yet. Don't know why Kate Winslet wasn't cast as Moneypenny.

Matt Neuendorf replied to comment from Matt Jaycox | November 10, 2012 3:47 PM | 

agree wholeheartedly. and the variety of the craig movies while maintaining quality has been supremely satisfying.
Myles Schoonover | November 10, 2012 4:18 PM | 

Not sure if anyone has mentioned this, if so I apologize, but my one problem with the movie were the stakes. What was Javier Bardem really after? An apology? Revenge against one old lady (who dies anyway)? While comparing the recent Bond entries to Chris Nolan's Batmans isn't exactly fair--one thing that Nolan always does well is have stakes that are high enough to keep my attention for long periods while points in Bond just fell flat for me whenever I started thinking about what Bardem was after.
Evan | November 10, 2012 4:26 PM | 

It's been a long time since the Bond franchise had a memorable villain. In fact, this villain seems almost like Hannibal Lector. The next Bond movie will have a hard time topping Skyfall.
Jesse Chia | November 10, 2012 4:45 PM | 

I thought this Bond film was good but not great. Casino Royale is still the best of the Craig films. Javier Bardem's performance, however, is one of the ages. I liked how Sam Mendes kept the camera on him at his first appearance while he told the story about the rats. 'Q' was also good.

However, the rest was not so interesting. Who was that guy looking at the painting who the assassin killed? How did Bond know that that guy's employer was the guy behind the hard-drive theft? I thought he was a contractor.

What happened to that girl after Bond was rescued? How did Bardem's character know to plant a bomb at a certain place so he detonate it and a train would fall through?

What was the point of Bardem getting captured just so he could kill M at the hearing? Couldn't he have done that anyway?

Also, as great as Bardem's performance was, I didn't get the sense that he was 'brilliant' or that scary like the girlfriend said.
Dan | November 10, 2012 4:59 PM | 

Rog-

I don't mean to be a curmudgeon, but allowing comments on a movie review? This should have been allowed like 5 years ago! I find it surprising, considering your penchant for reader feedback that this is suddenly a "new idea."

Just take the leap- and allow comments for all our reviews. If you want to see divisiveness- make it so! Why have you waited this long?

-DR

Ebert: Oh, believe me, I know! The klutzy software on my main site WILL NOT accept comments. My blog software will. We are currently zeroing in on a complete rebuild of the main site on a different platform. In impatience and frustration I've decided for this as a test run.
Horus Bosphorus | November 10, 2012 5:02 PM | 

Skyfall is a fail because each of its scenes are predictable. It does not add anything on the Connery era. Scenes are too much Britain holiday advertisement. Villain is unimpressive, at times sad, in the finale a laugh. Chase in the most frequented Bond city after London, Istanbul, starts in Europe and continues in Asia without any sea. Dead bond girl is the saddest dead bond girl. 007 contractually forbidden to make love to second rate females such as the new tomboy Moneypenny. But above all Bond cannot be ugly faced, he walks like a stray dog with eyes like an exhausted hungry wolf. Bond is Royal Navy SBS, who are selected from beautiful middle-class boys, not the working class rough Army SAS. He should emit grace and style even though he is a murdering civil-servant. There is nothing comes together in this movie apart from the wonderful cinematography. Fight scenes are good though - though not the same level as Bourne.
jeff mclaughlin | November 10, 2012 6:59 PM | 

SPOILER

1. we never find out why the assassin killed the guy in Macau
2. we never find out what happened to the item that M I 6 was trying to recover. you would think that they would at least mention it at the end of the movie...'oh, yeah we found....'
3. great to see the car
4. oo7 had his shirt off for most of the first half of the movie...he has become the new bond girl...
Dean Eaton | November 10, 2012 7:05 PM | 

Very mixed feelings about "Skyfall".

Why is it so important to the producers now that we take our Bond so seriously? Fans complained re "Quantum of Solace" that Bond was becoming Bourne - well, now he's becoming Batman. Even Bardem's villain was more than a little Joker-esque.

The 40th anniversary movie "Die Another Day" was much more entertaining and had a better mixture of humor, in-jokes for fans, and action. Pierce Brosnan - who for me was the best post-Sean 007 - pulled off the balancing act much better than Daniel Craig.

Daniel Craig - cannot get used to him. For me, a bruiser like Craig playing Bond is like casting Cagney as Nick Charles.

That said, I really enjoyed the last half hour, the new Q, the weird but very amusing villain, and Judi Dench's sterling performance as "M". And it was great to see that immortal Bond gadget do its thing, one more time.

Is it Clive Owen's turn yet?
Kevin | November 10, 2012 7:33 PM | 

The iris lens you speak of is the barrel of a gun.
Scott Miller replied to comment from Dan | November 10, 2012 7:47 PM | 

How about a comment on Argo? Read a book called Shooting Script.
Scott Miller replied to comment from Dan | November 10, 2012 7:52 PM | 

No not that Shooting Script. Or that one. Or that one. The one by Gavin Lyall. Who knew it was such a popular title?
Mickey Thompson | November 10, 2012 7:54 PM | 

My only disappointment was there was no mention or reference to the group Quantum. I loved Casino Royale, really liked QOS, and was hoping for the unraveling of Quantum by Bond.

I was a bit uncomfortable during the "scene" but those were my only quibbles. Great movie regardless of who it was about...
Vladan M. | November 10, 2012 7:57 PM | 

Dear Mr. Ebert,
I'd say "Skyfall" is a still-born, dead in its unimaginativeness, in its repetition of stereotypes that belong to past times, stereotypes that we can swallow down when watching old 007 flicks knowing they are accurate and genuine traces of their own time. While "Casino..." and "Quantum..." brought fresh breath, "Skyfall" took that same fresh breath away. Why does Daniel Craig who had his own Bond now imitates Roger Moore? Why is the victim of white slavery doomed to die once we discover she was "stained", and why does Bond perform his circus-like stunt after and not before she gets killed? Many other things like that in this movie... Regarding your review, it reminds me a lot of your "Conan the Destroyer" review where you said something like "here we can see friendly barbarian whom we can now expect to return more often in a series not unlike Tarzan or James Bond". Ironically enough, "Conan the Destroyer" killed off any possibility of a series precisely cause it had all elements a film in a series has, and had nothing fresh and new to offer.
Andy Lester | November 10, 2012 8:05 PM | 

Better than QoS, not as good as Casino Royale.

My big cringe was all the computer hoohah. Haven't we had enough of "bad guy makes something appear on good guy's laptop screen remotely"? Were we supposed to be impressed by Silva's poorly maintained, uncooled server racks on the island?

As they track Silva, Q is awed by Silva's strategy and refers to it as "security through obscurity." As the Wikipedia article states, the term is a perjorative. To anyone who knows anything about computer security, "security through obscurity" is something you roll your eyes at, not whisper reverentially.

And what was that subway train crashing through the hole about? Entirely unnecessary.
Nick | November 10, 2012 8:34 PM | 

I just got back from the movie a while ago, and while I think it works great on its own, when you think about how much this movie is like so many other films you've seen before, I personally came out of it a little disappointed. It was like if Christopher Nolan (The Dark Knight trilogy), Tony Gilroy (The Bourne series), and J.J. Abrams (Mission Impossible) came together to make a film, but it turned out it was only a little better than the Bourne movies, but not quite as good as The Dark Knight films.

As a Bond film itself, it is great; it does new things and feels like the end of an era for Bond, but overall, it was really cliche with a few minor problems behind it, and it made it slightly disappointing, even when I didn't know what I was expecting. I guess I didn't have any, although I do love Bond. If I had to give it a score, I'd give it a four out of five stars, half stars included. Awkwardly, if you look at it one way, the way this film is and is going to be when it comes to reception, it deserves it, and then on the other hand doesn't.
Larry M | November 10, 2012 8:58 PM | 

Daniel Craig's "Bond" was a different Bond from the beginning. He is not the pretty boy, rico suave', devil may care Bond that Moore and Brosnan were. (I've never seen Timothy Dalton's Bond so I cannot comment on him.) Connery's Bond had a little more machismo than Moore and Brosnan but was still cultured and well mannered. Craig's Bond has no culture or manners; he is so rough around the edges that you'd cut yourself trying to have a casual conversation with him. He's a street thug (despite being depicted as growing up on a nice Scottish estate) who'd spend his spare time engaged in a back alley cage match and drinking himself unconscious afterward.
"Skyfall" takes this very thuggish Bond and strips him of his good health, fancy MI6 gadgets, and even MI6 support and puts him on the defensive with very little do defend himself with. World peace and prosperity are not the stakes in this one, the stakes are more personal and closer to home. Relevance and contribution to Queen and country, for both M and Bond, at a time where they are both older, injured, not on their best game and making multiple mistakes while constantly being reminded of march of time by not only the young, fresh faces of new MI6 recruits but by superiors and politicians who are questioning whether it's time to change the old guard. This movie will probably not appeal to those who want a return to the "Goldfinger" style villains of the past, nor the techno junkies who like things like exploding pens or laser watches. Ralph Fiennes character sums up much about the movie's intention in asking Bond why he didn't just stay "dead" and asserting that the spy business is a young man's game. The world is moving on, will Bond and M be able to move with it? That is the central theme of this Bond. Whether it fully answers this question is up to the interpretation of the viewer.
me | November 10, 2012 9:00 PM | 

While the movie was well-made, it really wasn't all that FUN to watch. Yes, this may be truer to the books, and the other type has already been made countless times, but this was SO serious. It used to be fun to see a James Bond movie; this one seemed almost like a chore.
keith carrizosa | November 10, 2012 9:18 PM | 

I need to stop saying "sort of."
rrw | November 10, 2012 9:37 PM | 

It's a pretty great movie... really jump starts the franchise by subtly bringing it up to date with some 21st century supporting characters while staying with the original story ideas. Daniel Craig does a really good job and proves he really knows how to use his voice... he probably had to ante up cause he was playing scenes with some great actors: Judi Dench, Ralph Fiennes, Albert Finney ... and Javier Bardem creates another"killer" psychopath. Down side: They gotta stop with the cartoonish muzzle flashes from the automatic weapons... or fire their armorer, Wile E. Coyote. A few things happen that we don't get to see "on screen" that should have been there. But overall, great movie.
David McLachlan | November 10, 2012 9:40 PM | 

I'm not sure the outcome of the election is worth commenting on. Despite the delirium that fevered the media in its final days, the outcome seemed to be an America that was the same as the one that went into it. It all seemed to be very old news even as the final results were called. Of course, I'm not an American ...

Besides James Bond is a lot more fun. I am looking forward to seeing it.
Chris | November 10, 2012 10:39 PM | 

I am looking forward to seeing this.
I personally, cannot fathom what it was about "Solace" that Bond fans didn't like-it seemes to me that the first two with Craig were careful to both rebirth the character in another's hands, and link aspects of the previous films to the current. I thought that the visual design element of "Solace" were a throwback to the Connery era: Vibrant colors and contrasts and Bond's wardrobe being ultimately stylish even when in 'casual' dress, the over-the-top action scenes were reminiscent of Moore-era Bond leading into Craig's sometimes gnashing and brutal portrayal of a what was described in "Casino" as "a former SAS-type". It set up the coldness with which Bond dispatches his victims.
But, that is just me.
EricJ replied to comment from John Nguyen | November 10, 2012 11:14 PM | 

Still, there aren't too many other directors who could have revitalized the Bond films as distinctively--
Imagine for example, what Japanese anime director Hayao Miyazaki would have done with "Casino Royale":
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k9TXrv1_uPk ;)
Child of Empire | November 10, 2012 11:44 PM | 

I hope that the next James Bond will be a man of colour. Perhaps Idris Elba. That would be really cool. It drove me crazy how most of the marketing materials for the London Olympics featured white people. Britain isn't all white. I would almost go so far as to say most of Britain is nonwhite, or it will be within a generation. Let's be represented that way on the silver screen as well, yeah? Americans, too.
Jack Miller | November 10, 2012 11:56 PM | 

I just saw "Skyfall" a few hours ago, and it contained everything I want in a Bond movie (Dry humor, a great opening action sequence, a fascinating villain/Bond girl). It also contained more than that. Daniel Craig and Judi Dench gave truly great performances- something that one isn't able to say very often about mainstream action franchise films. Of course, this is still a James Bond movie, which is something that may turn off some of the artier readers of this blog, but personally, I love James Bond. "Skyfall" may not be great art, but it is great entertainment. I was never bored while watching it. "Skyfall" is one of the year's best films.
Ron warren | November 11, 2012 12:26 AM | 

Did we see the same movie?

I just got home fro the theatre, the film is terrible, contrived and

awful!!! Bond misses shooting the arch villian on the ladder scene.

When the villian wallks off the helicopter at " Skyfall" bond doesn't even take a shot at him?

Please this is wore than Quantum....UGGH

What a shame...so disappointed.
cifey | November 11, 2012 1:33 AM | 

Why do I like bond?
There is an understated sense of humor in the absurd plot lines and actions scenes which serve as a vehicle to give our hero a chance to exude superhuman control and charisma, and wouldn't it be great if I had always had that kind of control.
Bond is more enjoyable than batman and bourne, they are too willing to take on the burden sadness and weakness projected by modern society, but bond is too smart for that and that is where he has found his comfort(done). Yes he'll marry another spy some day but never settle, and yet his family will continue the tradition of mental fortitude and charisma.
Cristian | November 11, 2012 1:47 AM | 

Better than "Quantum of Solace", but what is not better than that one? That one seemed to be done only for the sake of it and had nothing to say. Or maybe a "tarantinoesque" kind of revenge movie would have been more appropiate.

"Skyfall" is better than "Quantum of Solace", but in no way better than "Casino Royale". It touches some new ground (Bond's childhood) and it refers back to Connery's Bond, but it doesn't really convince.

Javier Bardem is one of my favorite actors and he does a good job, but not an excellent one. He might be one of the better Bond villains, but in no way is one of the best villains. I might even go and say that Almaric and Mikkelsen were more convincing and frightning in the previous ones. Bardem's villain seems over the top and not really scary.

Overall, it seemed a rather big waste of talent if you ask me. A good movie, but not a great movie.

I can't wait for them to let Tarantino do a Bond movie.
William H | November 11, 2012 2:26 AM | 

It's mystifying to me how anyone can possibly think "Skyfall" is a good film. Why is no one else noticing the totally nonsensical plot? How can a film possibly be considered good when characters do things that defy belief. Want examples?

Silva wants to kill M. In order to do this he intentionally gets captured and held in a cell by MI6 (in a scene where he might well have been killed). And WHY does he want to be captured/incarcerated? Well so that he can magically escape, of course. Whereupon he and his team of assassins invades parliament where M is giving testimony. But WHY on earth did SIlva want to be captured. What prevented him from simply traveling to London and invading parliament? The answer is, NOTHING! The plot is absurd.

Another example:

After fending off Silva in Parliament, Bond - with M in tow - decides that it's time "to go back to the past so that we can be in front, rather than behind." And what is this clever trip to the past? Why, it consists of taking M to Bond's childhood home, with totally inadequate weapons and without ANY assistance from MI6. And when the inevitable attach comes, from assassins with machines gungs traveling in a helicopter, how does hiding in a medieval castle constitute "being in front?" The answer is, IT DOESN't" Bonds line about "getting in front" was the last scene, and good movie-goers are expected to forget the dialog uttered two minutes earlier.

Oh, and what about the film's title, "Skyfall?" Why, it's the name of Bond's boyhood home. By that reasoning, the name of the next Bond movie ought to be "Eggplant," because that was the favorite vegetable of Bond's mother.

Skyfall is an insult to the intelligence and very, very boring.

Ebert: Aren't all the Bond plots nonsensical?
P Bond | November 11, 2012 3:17 AM | 

Dear Mr. Ebert,
Despite your overwhelming positive review, and recommendation to those who’ve been out of the Bond beat for a while to pick it up again with this film, I must say I’ll let this one pass me by. I live very close to a multiplex that screens just this film several times a day. Where others would have to wade through the crowded schedule of bookings for evenings and weekends, I could get up one morning and just walk into the place and buy a ticket to any seat in the house that I wanted. People would probably kill for a privilege like this, and would consider me arrogant and foolish to pass up a chance like this, but my answer’s still no.

Truth be told, I didn’t realize that I’d had enough of Bond – not after Quantum of Solace, as one might expect, but after seeing the promos for Skyfall. My reaction upon seeing the first of the promotional material late last month was: “Wow, I’d forgotten they still make those (Bond films, i.e.) Oh well, moving on…”
The tone of the series have drastically changed over the years (starting with The Living Daylights – from Roger Moore even, if you ask me) and the films no longer belong to the same witty and self-abasing genre they once did, even if the films themselves possess those very qualities. Even if this one is made with same qualities that gave them their original everlasting appeal, it will still be a nostalgic reference to those films, and implicitly (whether we like it or not), those days. In your Quantum of Solace review, you have said that this is a swampy world and that we need James Bond to stand above it. Well, I think the only way he can do that is by staying out of the swamp. The more he tries to “blend in” or “change with the times”, the more he gets mired in the swamp.

Maybe, rather than me having gotten too tired of Bond films, the truth is that it’s probably Bond himself who, at 50, has become way too tired from doing this, pushed on beyond what he can realistically provide by the public expectation that “James Bond Will (and must always) Return”.
Jimmy | November 11, 2012 3:39 AM | 

What they said... or perhaps I should keep it to an oh-so-glib and wounding "stick to commentating on politics. No one wants to hear your views on film."


I want to know what you think about the election!
David thomson replied to comment from Chris Hunneysett | November 11, 2012 6:13 AM | 

SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS

@Chris, -- Further to your Arthur analysis -- Bond's gun is exactly like Excalibur -- it can only be used by Bond! Duh... I totally should have seen that! Not to mention that it's a dragon he's fighting in the scene when he uses it. The more I think about it the more Mendes isn't just referencing Arthur, he's basically arguing that Bond IS Arthur.

Mendes seems to be saying Bond is the founding legend of Britain in the 21st Century. The gun is the exemplification of what Mendes proposes modern Britain (and the Bond franchise itself?) looks like. Tradition with a modern twist... We're not bigger, fancier, more advanced but we are still better because we know where we came from. Silva's problem is that he rejects tradition and has entirely embraced technology.

It's actually pretty similar to the sentiments of those other huge British exports Tolkien and Rowling. What does Sauron want to do... Reject traditional values... he wants to bring on the industrial revolution, cut down all the forests and make factories to genetically engineer super warriors from orcs and elves. What does Voldemort want to do? Reject tradition and bring magic openly into the world... He wants revolution. Harry is much more comfortable quietly rebelling on details while standing up for the traditional way things have been.

Regarding Mallory and Bond's parents... What is it with British cultural icons and orphans? Bond, Harry Potter, Frodo Baggins... And thats before you get anywhere near Dickens... If you're the chosen one in Britain, Christmas is a pretty lonely holiday! It does start getting very Joseph Campbell when you start looking at it. And Star Wars starts looking like a restoration saga... But Lucas so far as I understand was drawing pretty heavily from those English legends anyway.

Maybe the orphan thing comes from the fact that the English countryside and its natural state is a total lie. It's been the product of human exploitation and restructuring since pre-historic times. There is no natural place on the British isles and has never been. And being the first nation to industrialise only cements that break from nature. Silva's technology is a radical break. He wants to remain a orphan again by killing his M(other). Bond's is an improvement on the old ways - he is there to save her. He adapts where necessary. What's problematic is that he fails: traditions have to renew themselves.

Or perhaps it returns to something in that WW2 poster: keep calm and carry on. What's the worst thing that could happen... Being orphaned... What do you do... Turn into a suave unflappable killer who makes quips when people die... You keep calm... Or like Frodo... You just keep carrying on!

I'm joking here of course... But now Bond is finished his oedipal problems with one M(other) and she's been replaced by his father M(allory) - who the movie tells us died on a climbing expedition - maybe Bond will have to seduce M's wife in the next movie! Actually, Moneypenny is M's female partner isn't she... And in my reading of the film... They HAVE to have slept together already. (Fireworks in the next shot - what else does it mean?). Can we expect a future Craig on Finnes showdown...!

Roger:
Your comment idea seems to be a great success, judging from the range and quantity. But... it's very difficult to follow any conversation thread, it would be great if your future comment system could include a thread structure of some sort.

Also, perhaps you might need to include a button that says "Does this post include a spoiler?" And maybe not show the body of the post unless you click it or something. I totally understand people not wanting spoilers (I've stopped watching most trailers for that reason...) but at the same time, if you want to discuss the movie it is hard to go into detail without spoilers.

Or I suppose you could just put a big warning at the top!
Miles Blanton | November 11, 2012 7:55 AM | 

***** Spoiler Alert *****

I like how this was actually a pretty conventional Bond movie. There's a somewhat unrelated introduction. Followed by a development leading to an investigation of the villian. The uncovering of the villian who then shows Bond all that he wants to show him while Bond is the villian's prisoner. Then a nice reversal, Bond has the villian seemingly under his power. But this is the cunning plan all along, so the villian's plot is further unveiled. Finally, a chase, but in reverse, Bond is pursued, and then the seige. So, conventional, but at times reversed. All throughout the theme of "the old" versus "the new" is explored. But it was conventional.

When Bond disappeared, I feared he would be a sleeper agent, or something tricky like that. This was further confirmed in his psych eval, when they used the word "Skyfall", I assumed that would be a trigger word. I thought they might do something completely differernt with Bond, and I guess its good they didn't, because we got a redux of the standard Bond formula.
Marty P | November 11, 2012 8:45 AM | 

I give the movie 3 stars. It was a good story. But my son - a Bond aficionado - and I admitted to each other after the movie that we were waiting for the movie to end. It just felt like it ran long. I wish I could explain why, but how do you explain why you've lost interest in something.

A bigger complaint - for me - is that this great new Bond appears to pay greater homage to Tom Cruise and his personal style of coolness, than to the charm and style of some of the best Bonds. To me, this is one of the things that has made Bond unique. He had a soft spot for the ladies and was constantly in settings to charm their pants off. This Bond does hardly any of that; and seems awkward at the idea.
Billy Budd | November 11, 2012 8:51 AM | 

I didn't like the way women are portrayed in the movie. M is weak, fragile, dependent, incompetent. She even says that she doesn't know how to shoot! The only thing I liked in the movie was the gay villain. Barden knows how to play a bad guy.
Michael | November 11, 2012 9:07 AM | 

Roger,
I too loved Skyfall, but I have to say I’m really glad that I did not read your review until after seeing it yesterday afternoon. One of the great things about the trailer for Skyfall - in stark contrast with the current trailer trend to be a Cliff Note synopsis of the promoted film - is that it gave a sense of the level of excitement Skyfall would create while, at the same time, giving away nothing about the plot or the surprises it contained. Had I read your review beforehand, much of the excitement I experienced would have been dampened.
Graham | November 11, 2012 9:16 AM | 

Partisans of the books sometimes claim that Fleming’s Bond was a much darker character than his cinematic counterpart, and indeed from time-to-time Fleming's Bond does settle down to brood for a moment. But then it’s off to the races: booze, cigarettes, guns, girls, and cars. And sometimes along the way a few pointed remarks about rape that would make Todd Akin cringe. Fleming’s books are preposterous from one end to the other, as he well knew. They are not serious spy fiction in the way that LeCarre’s Smiley books are, for instance. At times, they positively tremble on the brink of corn. So the recent “toughening” of the character of Bond (which has happened periodically through the series, anyway – remember how that same discourse surrounded Timothy Dalton’s two flicks back in the 1980s) isn’t a throwback to Fleming’s books. It’s a reflection of the changing expectations of movie audiences.

It’s curious. Bond is an iconic character, but I wonder how well, really, the films have stood up. Time is short and I rarely watch a movie more than once. It had been eons since I’d seen re-watched an old Bond. Last week, I chose “The Man with the Golden Gun” from iTunes and had a crack at it while washing the dishes. (I do some of my best movie-viewing while washing the dishes.)

Unwatchable. It was like trying to get into an early seventies album by Ringo Starr or something.
Nathan Kanelis | November 11, 2012 9:38 AM | 

Roger,

Loved the review and loved the movie. But I am getting a bit weary of one thing. The constant comparing of superhero movies to "The Dark Knight". Not every superhero or hero movie that that also turns out to be a fine film owes it to "The Dark Knight". "Superman: The Movie" proved it was possible to take a comic book characters and make serious cinema back in 1978. It's just that no one paid any attention for 30 years. "The Dark Knight" owes itself to "Superman (1978)". Plus, there have been several other comic book hero films which made fine films in between. Usually the first in a series: Batman (1989), Spiderman Trilogy. And don't forget, "Batman Begins" came before "The Dark Knight".

Is "The Dark Knight" going to be mentioned in every superhero movie review from now on?
Harvey replied to comment from Smoky | November 11, 2012 9:47 AM | 

"The original Bond books by Ian Flemming were jokes making fun of detective stories. "


You couldn't be more wrong.
Harvey | November 11, 2012 9:57 AM | 

I wish some of you guys would keep your comments {i}shorter{/i} than the original review, thanks.
Dean Eaton | November 11, 2012 10:22 AM | 

Ironically, it may be the influence of the recent comic-book movies - and that all-important first episode - that have the greatest impact on 007.

The producers have never cared so much about Bond's past before, except in OHMSS and and fleeting references to that particular film in later ones.

He just IS, living in the moment and dealing with whatever new adventure was upon him. Now Wilson & Broccoli have completed what amounts to the longest origin story - 2006-2012 - in film history.

I believe it is essential to think of CASINO ROYALE, QUANTUM and SKYFALL as a trilogy, having finally (?) reset a status that can continue over the next decade - if the Broccolis choose to do so..

Now let's get on with it, find a new Bond, and have some fun next time...
Paul Siegel | November 11, 2012 1:08 PM | 

It's been a little while since I saw the previous two bond movies, but wasn't MI-6 still hunting down the Evil Organization (perhaps SPECTRE?) which was bankrolling the villains in Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace? It really felt like they were building up to something which they completely dropped in Skyfall. I was also surprised that Felix Lighter didn't make an appearance. Overall I thought that Skyfall was excellent but that it seemed to take place in a different universe from the one they were building on the last two movies. It was sort of a reboot within a reboot.
John Nguyen | November 11, 2012 1:18 PM | 

Unrelated off topic, but I just want to say way too much cynicism in film criticisim.
This can be damaging in oh so many ways. That is all.
Rory | November 11, 2012 2:49 PM | 

Was anyone else disappointed that the film's final chapter came down to a "last stand" at some old manor? How typical, eh? The defenders' complete lack of adequate weapons, the scenes of preparing booby traps, and the quiet reflective pause before the oncoming storm. I like the Bond film, but I wish the ending had taken a different rout. That, and I would have appreciated less scenes of a shirtless Daniel Craig shaving, sleeping, answering the door, removing bullet fragments from his shoulder, etc...
Bill Hays | November 11, 2012 3:43 PM | 

In the original Bond novels, Bond faced villains who were a bit "larger than life." A plan to rob all the gold from Fort Knox. A super-criminal named Blofeld who negotiates for amnesty with stolen nuclear weapons and chemical agents that can destroy Britain's crops.

Then, there's a personal B-story. Blofeld murders Bond's wife of a few hours, Tracy, sending Bond on a personal vendetta to Japan.

Should there be a Bond villain who appears in three or more movies, so we get a sense of Bond hunting him down on a mission of revenge?

Now, take that idea, and compare it to the Silva character in Skyfall. Doesn't seem very impressive now, does he? No secret headquarters for SPECTRE, no need to assassinate his own men who lie about their ill-gotten gains.

At this point, I think the Bond series needs... an evil organization with some complexity. A dozen super-criminals fighting for control of enormous amounts of money, and Bond sneaking in, killing one and making it look like his rival did it. Let Bond have some fun making these genius masterminds go after the wrong targets. (Timothy Dalton did this with a drug cartel but Daniel Craig could stretch it out over a couple of movies and have more fun.)

I pretty much agree with everything Roger said about "Skyfall." Didn't see a need to repeat it, but I'm not disagreeing. I wanted to have more "fun" and maybe a car chase between Bond and a souped-up Mercedes "Blofeld" car along a deserted, awesome stretch of road somewhere. Give Bond a chance to show off what Q's new Aston Martin Vanquish can do when there aren't pedestrians in the way. Maybe Moneypenny flies overhead in a new "Little Nellie" gyrocopter from "You Only Live Twice."
Pablo Colorado | November 11, 2012 3:50 PM | 

*SPOILERS*
I loved the first half of Skyfall because Mendes was trying to bring the old magic back to the franchise. The opening chase scene, the theme song (Adele did a great Shirley Bassey imitation,) the imaginative graphics, all made me feel like the series was going back to its roots. Bond even had a couple of trysts with beautiful women, an element that had been sorely missing in recent films.
But then comes Javier Bardem doing a crappy Phillip Seymour Hoffman imitation, taking revenge on England because he's unhappy with his dental work, and the film bogs down and never picks back up. The ending in the dreary Bond ancestral mansion was a little too somber. I may have looked at it differently had I read Chris Hunneysett's Arthurian take on the story. Directing and cinematography certainly trounce any Bond movie I've seen but after one of the greatest openings in Bond history the ending needed to be kicked up many notches. Personally I like the throwbacks to the old bond, and would like more snickering sexual innuendo but Austin Powers may have put an end to that. Now if Angelina Jolie were cast as Bond she could do the reverse innuendo. She's already proven to be a better action hero than Craig. Best Bond movie ever? Octopussy!
Gary from the Iguana Motel | November 11, 2012 4:33 PM | 

“Ebert: Aren't all the Bond plots nonsensical?”

Yes.

And please, can’t we all tell this by most every blurb and advertisement for Bond films? So the hint is, try to relax.

I suggest viewers just sit back and enjoy these films for what they are. Don’t try to remake the stories into field manuals for spies.

I enjoyed Dr. No, From Russia with Love, and even Goldfinger but thereafter the added glitz and hardware left me, or I left it.
Garry | November 11, 2012 4:34 PM | 

I really enjoyed it. Also, I really enjoyed the fact that it felt less like a commercial. The only product placements that I noticed were the computers (Sony) and Jaguar. Oh, and CNN.

Speaking of CNN, I'm getting a little tired of seeing them pimp out their on air talent for movies and film. Don't get me wrong, television news lost its credibility a long time ago, but can't they at least feign integrity?
P Bond replied to comment from P Bond | November 11, 2012 4:55 PM | 

Perhaps I overshot earlier today in expressing my personal tiredness and disinterest with Bond films, when I went so far as to say that Bond must have stayed put in the 60’s. While in principle, and on an intellectual level, I can see the validity of your stance on what Bond should be, on a visceral and experiential level I have been more subject to the feel that the Bond films have taken over the years, and consequently, left with no more desire to subject myself to another Bond experience, regardless of how good you say it is (and even if that’s true). I think the events of how this came to be have some relevance and bearing to our present reality, so if you care to hear me out, I'll go on.

This is in no small part because, by my time, Bond had well slipped into the genre of mainstream action thriller. Just to put things in perspective, Golden Eye was the first Bond film I got to see, that too at age 6 or something. My point being, there were a whole generation of us who couldn’t possibly be even aware of the true significance of the Bond films, while at the same time subjected to its influence during our formative years (rather than introduced to it, say, in our twenties even). And these weren’t exactly the cream of the crop either (remember, this was “modern” Bond as portrayed by Brosnan, and even Dalton), but more on that later. The bottom line is that these kinds of things tend to leave an impression in your mind, regardless of whether or not it matches reality. I’m not trying to justify anything here – I’m just trying to highlight the fact that, despite one’s self-awareness, certain things tend to be associated with certain attributes in one’s mind. In this case, Bond (or at least “modern” Bond) was, for all intents and purposes, an action hero in an espionage-themed action thriller. It didn’t matter that I found out otherwise later on. In fact, viewing the Sean Connery greats made me associate their real defining attributes with only the original set of films rather than with the whole franchise.

Now aside from my own subjective associations, there is another very real aspect at play here – the post-Moore-era films. Let’s face it – even the Brosnan films (except Golden Eye, maybe) were only unintentionally amusing. Unlike the Connery or Moore era films, you just can’t pretend to credit these with awareness of their own absurdity. And the Dalton films weren’t even that. If these are to be appreciated, it could only ever be as glossy espionage-themed action thrillers – which is what a whole generation thought they were.
Then came the Craig reboot. Even though it consisted of many of the original elements that defined the old films, these were lost on most people. All they could see was better-choreographed action and chase sequences, smarter and more subtly posh setting, and – in irony of supreme ironies – a more coherent and less absurd plot! The true intelligence behind the reboot was completely lost on almost everyone, even though they were all there.

You can probably see at this point how a film like Quantum of Solace can be considered by many as a smart, classy thriller. It delivered very well – beyond expectations, even – to what scores of hopelessly unaware people had come to expect from the series. For me personally (by the time I’d come to notice the Skyfall promos, and before I read what you’d written about the series), it looked like they’d reached the end of how far they could go with a shaky, incredibly dated and increasingly irrelevant premise – regardless of attempts to “reboot” the series to make it more “relevant” in a “modern-day” setting (I realize I’ve put too many words in quotes, but all of them do need it – badly). Now of course, after having read what you wrote on Skyfall and others, I’m able to see in retrospect the undercurrents that belied the franchise all along, even in the more recent films. I’d watched the old films a year ago, so when I read what you wrote, I knew at once what you were talking about.

But it doesn’t really matter now, because as I write, I realize my tiredness extends even deeper. It is not just with the premise, it is with the whole setting itself. It is with Commander James Bond, with M, with Moneypenny, the bizarre villains, the cars and gadgets, the pretext for setting the scenes up in exotic locales, and not to mention the chases and the trademark escapes.It's all been done to death, however way you look at it. It doesn’t matter if the absurdity is intentional or not, or that Bond is not so much a character as the personification of an attitude. It is about the complete package, in its entirety. It looks like I’ve reached my limit of how many times I can draw amusement from any of it.
P Bond (in apology) | November 11, 2012 5:36 PM | 

Quote:
"regardless of how good you say it is (and even if that’s true)"
I don't know how I missed this one after so many drafts. That bit in the parentheses was worded all wrong. I apologize - I wasn't implying anything by putting it that way. It was a completely unintentional blunder.
Denise Cahill | November 11, 2012 6:21 PM | 

Saw the movie two nights in a row due to friends wanting to see it. It was far superior to many of the other Bond movies and I really enjoyed the references to other Bond films, though I do not have all of the scripts memorized as some of the those who posted on this site and others.

Movies should be entertaining and this one was. It was also thought-provoking and capable of being enjoyed on a number of levels. More please!
Dana Stabenow | November 11, 2012 6:21 PM | 

I saw it Saturday with a friend. We had lunch afterward, and halfway through I looked at her and said, "When was the last time, if ever, we spent this much time talking about a Bond film?" The parallel relationships with M and Bond and M and Silva are worthy of a doctoral dissertation on their own. Bond thoroughly understands both M and the sacrifices he signed on for in the job, Silva never did either.

Craig gives Bond a sense of almost palpable menace in every frame, from the colossus-legged stance he adopts whenever he's standing still to the barely restrained threat he exhibits in tight corners to the almost literal explosion of action when his trigger goes off. I also loved getting some of his backstory. Stayed in the priest hole for two days and when he came out he was no longer a boy. I'm still wondering why Silva laughed when he saw Bond's parents' tombstone. Is there something about their death that he knows that we don't?

Great fight scenes. I especially loved Bond walking away while the guy is still screaming from the Komodo dragon chewing on him. Loved him using Silva's thug's rifle to shoot a hole in the ice. Loved the Cat shovel on top of the train, and especially loved it when Bond drops through the hole he made in the train car and then pauses to shoot his cuff before haring after the bad guy.

The requisite Bond girl is, astonishingly, not only beautiful but a terrific actress. Since we don't see the villain until we're an hour in, all we have to rely on is her fear of him, and I was afraid for her. It made her real as a character in a way that seldom happens with Bond girls.

And speaking of the villain, only the best. Bond. villain. EVER, with fabulous dialogue. Throughout, this is the best written Bond film ever ("Orphans always make the best recruits."). Loved this film. Never once did it talk down to me.*

*Okay, once, maybe. All Bond had to do was flip open the top of the gear shift lever in the Aston Martin. M didn't have to explain by saying "Go ahead, eject me, see if I care. The writers could have trusted me to get it if all Bond and M had done was exchange a long, meaningful glance.

But if that's all I've got to complain about? I got nothing. Lovedlovedloved this film.
Mary | November 11, 2012 6:25 PM | 

This was a wonderful James Bond! The minute I'd seen the Aston-Martin, I was up off my seat applauding. From there, I truly knew I was in good hands. Good show! Double good show!!!
Trevor e.y. replied to comment from David | November 11, 2012 6:43 PM | 

spoiler alert?????!!!!! thanks a lot. please tell people you are going to give away huge plot points David
Carl | November 11, 2012 8:56 PM | 

This is unrelated to Bond, but here and in your No Country for Old Men review you deem Chigurh unpronounceable. They actually say his name a few times in No Country. It's pronounced "Shi-gur."
Sam Mills | November 11, 2012 9:39 PM | 

I know I'm late, but I just saw the film Sunday night. I was very impressed, not just because the film has great action, but terrific and compelling drama as well.

You said in your review of "Quantum of Solace" that James Bond is not an action hero. It's almost as if the filmmakers read your review and took your advice, because it certainly feels as if your complaints of that film were addressed (even though I actually enjoyed it).

This is a great film, and in a year where the Oscar buzz has been particularly low, is it possible we'll see "Skyfall" as a Best Picture nominee?
Ricardo Cantoral | November 11, 2012 9:52 PM | 

I have heard some complaints about Silva being too over the top at times but I think those critics miss the point. He wanted to amuse himself because he was bored with life and all he had to look forward to was vengeance.
ztigr | November 11, 2012 11:19 PM | 

Mr. Ebert,

I always trust your reviews, not always agreeing, but still trusting that you are giving an honest opinion and knowing that you love cinema. Spot on assessment of this movie, and Craig's take on Bond. Quantum was a real let down after Casino but Skyfall took Casino to the next level. This movie builds backwards from Big to small with great skill. And finally a great villain!
Dana Stabenow | November 11, 2012 11:27 PM | 

Had to come back to say this one thing:

If Bond hadn't shown up in time, M would have taken the shot for the team, because that was the job she and Bond signed on for. When Silva forces the gun into her hand and the gun to her temple and puts his head next to hers? I bet she was figuring the angle, if a bullet fired just there would make it all the way through her brain and into his. Judi Dench's M is probably the only woman Bond ever truly loved.

See me here? Wondering long afterward what was going on in a character's head? Wondering what happens to the characters after we leave them? That, folks, is the mark of a good film. One of them, anyway.
Ian Rosen | November 11, 2012 11:38 PM | 

Great review, Roger. The main thing I took away from this movie was the wonderful performance of Judi Dench and the poignancy she added to the film. She is such a magical, beautiful actress. Also, Daniel Craig was great. He has a Steve McQueen like iciness, but also is very effective at showing the human qualities beneath the cool veneer. As the movie progressed, I could see into his conflicted soul. Javier Bardem also added a rather eccentric sense of humor and multi-faceted aspect to his role. And I must say, the theme song was the best I've heard in a long time. This movie will be a hard act to follow.
Sam R | November 11, 2012 11:54 PM | 

This has already been mentioned a few times by others, but it bears repeating. What took away from my enjoyment of "Skyfall" was the sense that the filmmakers were dismantling the last 50 years of progress in gender roles over the course of the film. It starts with women in apparently strong roles, but then M becomes a damsel in distress and a victim, Bond's partner, Eve, isn't cut out for field work, and the less said about the woman Bond meets in Shanghai the better. At the end of the film, gender roles are back to exactly where they were at the beginning of the series in 1962.
Daniel | November 12, 2012 12:12 AM | 

Personally, I thought it fell flat. The weak points were too glaring- the stereotypical computer hacker nerd guy who magically bangs on a laptop to patch up plot-holes. The absurdly powerful computer programs, verging on omniscience. Finally, the inconsistent motivation of Silva- if he wants to kill M and destroy MI6, why not just do it at the beginning of the film, when he has the hard drive, has the description, and is savvy enough to be able to remotely detonate HQ specifically when M isn't there? What about Bond's foreshadow, that M has a sinister secret about the still mysterious perpetrator, which when resolved couldn't possibly be less impactful.

But again, to reiterate, the entire plot revolves around a retro-fit CSI Miami script, where a nerd with a computer program auto-magically fills in gigantic unsolvable plotholes.


But it's Bond, so I'm cool with a preposterous plot. As long as it still has huge stunts, ooozes style, and lots of female skin, I'm in. Sadly, aside from the train scene, there were no epic stunts, and the Bond girls barely made an impact.

For the same itch, I say check out MI4. Bigger better wilder stunts, and incredibly, a more plausible plot.
Jose Rios | November 12, 2012 12:13 AM | 

Roger,
Excellent review, as usual.
This time I went to watch this film without reading your review first.
I loved the movie. I came home and the first thing I did was to read your review of it. I was very happy to see that you gave it 4 stars.
You are my hero and my movie guru. There may be 20,000 movie reviews... but they are of no consequence. I read what you have to say about any given movie, and everything is clear to me. If you say 4 stars... there's no other way about it: It will be an excellent film. I'm missing you already. Don't you ever stop doing what you do so perfectly. May God keep you safe and reviewing movies all the way to the end.
Faith | November 12, 2012 12:25 AM | 

Mr. Ebert,
Thank you for the excellent review. May I just add a couple of comments? I really liked the addition of psychological connections, i.e. free association and the Freudian trauma in childhood, etc. This was the first Bond film in a while to take us in-depth into the actual character of Bond. The villain, too, we perceive, had been deeply hurt by M, and so we felt his pain and understood, a bit, of his descent into madness.
I still think that all the Bond films are completely misogynistic. As was previously mentioned, all but M seemed completely inept and I was surprised that M couldn't even brandish a knife to save her own life! As for Moneypenny- why on earth would one go from being a field agent to a secretary? Perhaps so she could sleep with Bond again and get another chance at an STD? Disappointing for women. And I thought we'd come a long way, baby...
On a side note, I've been a huge fan of you and your reviews for many years. I do hope you actually read these.
Cordially,
Faith
Jonathan | November 12, 2012 12:38 AM | 

I've just seen the film its about 1 hour old in my memory, I did like the film but I must voice a few reservations about the direction that Bond is flowing.
There is an argument for ending the franchise, one is that its played out, you can expect people to continue to believe Bond is Doctor Who and regenerates every time you get one long in the tooth, like putting double makeup on Roger Moore and rolling him out again. I would recommend going back however and watching, "A View to a Kill", at the time I didn't like it, and it had been 20 years since I'd seen it, when I reviewed it again I was stunned at how good a Bond film it is. If you like Roger Moore at all please re-Review "A View to a Kill". Now onto Skyfall, my main criticism is this the love interest in this film was plainly "M" as a godmother or some such figure, perhaps a doting Grandmother, not the earlier Macau girl who got popped in the head for helping Bond, I'm sorry but Judi Dench is a nice person, but she's not hot enough to get men to say Damn. I understand the story line and you have to move on, but please. You need to have a love interest of high standard to carry a film like this, someone you can actually see yourself caring about, I just didn't get it with the new Money Penny or frankly the half hearted subconscious MILF in her late 70's. Another thing I didn't like, the swipe at the "Quaint" gadgets of the past, that somehow spys don't actually have or use. Well that's just bunk, there are very useful gadgets that have been in use for 60 years and I don't believe because a producer wants to be different he will change my love for gadgets, that's part of Bond being cool and will never change. The palm print gun was a nod and the DB5 MGs as well, so just go full bore for Pete's sake.
Overall I give this movie a solid B+ in the post Roger Moore era, its still not a solid A like Casino Royale was, it was much more exciting than this film, I've heard Daniel Craig didn't really want to do this film and he really did look as if he didn't want to. Was that being dead part at the beginning all about his reluctance? Quantum was a C- and really only one cut above the Timothy Dalton disasters. But again where are they taking this Bond, I hear rumour they have optioned 2 more movies. Is Daniel Craig onboard for the type casting that will occur or will he bolt. It took Connery 15 years to recover but he is an extraodinary actor. I suggest Craig stop after 1 more. If they aren't going to pursue an international Al Qaueda type organization like the Union, what's the point of these movies? And what's all this about MI6? More rebranding, we all know Her Majesty's Secret service was like Special Branch on Speed, not MI6, that's day to day. Another thing I didn't like. Overall though worth my 10 bucks, but just barely. Bring on the next storyline, back to missions, enough of this heart to heart crap. I want sex and over the top crazy again! Bring me Goldfinger any day ! PLEASE!
Jonathan replied to comment from P Bond | November 12, 2012 12:57 AM | 

You just don't like James Bond, admit it to yourself. At least you don't sound like you do, If you do read the books, the films have always only been an extension of Ian Fleming and late John Gardner, its unfortunate they've not made John Gardners books. Maybe you will change your mind about Bond if you explore the literary side. It is about escapism after all about the super agent, about the drive of one person to achieve what others can't. If you don't by into that, then you are only fooling yourself, but really that's part of any spy movie. If you want realism stick to Len Deighton's Harry Palmer or Bernard Samson.
Ian Rosen replied to comment from Harvey | November 12, 2012 12:59 AM | 

I've noticed the same thing. Nice to know I'm not the only one. This seems to occasionally happen with all the discussions here. I've just gotten used to skipping over the really lengthy replies. With all due respect, they put me to sleep after a certain point.
J Rice | November 12, 2012 1:12 AM | 

I have never disagreed with you before Roger. I always go to your site before I choose a movie to go and see. My wife and I both agree, that Casino Royale is STILL the best bond movie ever. Skyfall was very good, maybe a 3 star.. Did not like Ralph Fiennes as Mallory or M. Thought Javier Bardem was brilliant. Bond was too squinty, and not as sexy as usual. We think he is the best bond, besides Sean Connery. Thanks
Toby | November 12, 2012 1:47 AM | 

Roger- I've always adored your movie reviews (and political op-eds), but I've noticed sort of a new pattern in your movie taste that's a bit unlike mine. You seem to get really swept up in ambitious escapism while becoming less concerned with storytelling. This isn't a criticism, mind you, because there's nothing wrong with it. I'm just interested if you've noticed this pattern in your taste as well and if you have something to say about it.

See, there were several things I really liked about this movie- particularly Javier Bardem, the Craig-era commentary on masculinity, some wonderful set pieces, complex character interactions, intimate scale, lovely scenery, etc.- but its narrative lacked internal consistency and dramatic tension on multiple accounts. I could go into details, but I'd rather stick with one simple no-no for a story: our main character was not important. He was at no point in the movie a significant agent of change. Silva was totally disinterested in him, he managed no significant influence over the deaths of other agents or (spoiler) the death of M, and his position in the story until killing Silva was basically a passive observer. Silva and Bond, more or less, had the same experiences with MI6 and M. The difference is that Silva changed his perspective whereas Bond kind of shrugged it off and continued doing his job. The climax hinged on the life and death of M, but as the tension ostensibly grew, both the audience and our protagonist felt increasingly more ambivalent towards her. It's... you know... Creative Writing 101, right? Events ought to occur because of the characters' actions, not around them or in spite of them. (And if that rule is broken, as it was perfectly in, say, A Serious Man, it should be addressed and implemented for a reason.)

Again, I had a nice time at the flick, but I've noticed a lot of four-star reviews of yours for films that look cool and contain intense set pieces, but simply lack cohesion and narrative strength. The most dramatic disagreements I can recall having with your reviews in recent years were Prometheus and Inception, both of which were stunningly gorgeous but should've earned a big, red, lipstick "X" from any responsible editor reading the script. So, what do you think? Is narrative cohesion less important to you these days than it has been in the past? Or do you believe that movies like Skyfall, Inception and Prometheus were more narratively developed than I thought? In general- if the action works but the story doesn't, is that ok?

Anyway, even when we disagree, I love your writing. In fact, I'd love to hear your thoughts on the election. And knitting.

Ebert: I hope that isn't happening. I hope I prefer storytelling. Of course each individual movie has to be considered.
Gary | November 12, 2012 2:59 AM | 

As a long-time Bond aficionado, It was entertaining but dare I say that Skyfall fell short of the sky-high expectations for me. It felt much like a "transitional" Bond Movie ... one designed to retire some old characters, introduce some new ones and set the stage for future chapters in the Bond franchise. It had all the requisite elements of a classic Bond feature, but the story just had too many dis-jointed subplots that caused me to feel distracted and confused at several points. Perhaps I was distracted because I was at the drive-in and Argo was showing on the screen to my immediate left ... a movie that I liked much more than this one.

The Villain's back story and motives were a little thin (Pissed at M, and wanted to get back at her for past wrongs), his henchmen lacked personality -- with scenes that didn't connect well ... the Assassin in Shanghai highrise, for instance -- didn't really get what that scene was supposed to be. Who did he shoot, and why did it matter to the story?

I concur with those that felt that the movie was too long ... the final act felt forced, and not terribly interesting, other than providing a landmark and a back story for Bond's pre-spy days.

Bond movies are like ice cream to me ... even the iffy ones are still pretty darn good!
Brian Fowler | November 12, 2012 4:16 AM | 

For the second time in three films, I can see a legit argument for Craig's outing to be consider THE best Bond film ever.

Not since Connery first 3 films has that happened.

Which, of course, make how bad QoS was even more annoying and perplexing.
Russell Tribe | November 12, 2012 4:43 AM | 

Great review, I thought this movie was awesome and glad to see its getting the critic reviews it deserves. There really is a strong case for Skyfall being nominated for several oscars. Whilst his direction is superb, I consider Mendes a long shot for Best Director as there is so much other competition. However I think Best Picture is achievable and perfectly justified given the quality of the movie. Best cinematography should be a certain nomination and a worthy winner, so should Adeles theme. Best supporting actor for Javier and BSA for Dame Judi would be justified too.
Here's hoping the academy make the right decision and show Skyfall the respect it deserves and honour the contribution the whole franchise has made to cinema.
Seongyong Cho | November 12, 2012 5:59 AM | 

My thoughts on Silva: "... While the recent Bond movie villains usually have the goals far less lofty than world domination, Silva’s goal is more personal; he has a few scores to be settled with M, and he is so determined to get the fulfillment in his own way that I think that famous talking villain syndrome does not apply to his case."
Russ replied to comment from Graham | November 12, 2012 6:16 AM | 

Among the 200 or more comments on this page, yours nailed the real issue here. Your mark is spot-on. Even Ebert himself could take a leaf out of your book. I salute thee.

Surprised with your choice for re-watch, though. Want to watch an oldie but a goodie - go with a Connery! Dr. No! Goldfinger! Even "You Only Live Twice" is infinitely preferable.
barberoux | November 12, 2012 6:31 AM | 

Nice review. I enjoy your writing and have enjoyed it for years. I liked Quantum of Solace though it was not a good as Casino Royale. Maybe CR set too high a standard to live up to. it was far better than some of the dreak put out in the middle period Bond films.
Sean Bond replied to comment from Andy Graham | November 12, 2012 7:45 AM | 

***spoilers***

This sums up my feelings on the movie. I thought it was an excellent movie (with an equally great cast0, but not quite as excellent as a Bond movie. Some parts felt out of place (the last act), and I didn't feel like there was enough "fun" in the movie, which is something all the best Bonds have had (regardless of the danger 007 was in).

I also feel like this movie would've had more impact had it been made after at least one more Bond film with Daniel Craig in it. It just didn't feel to me like Craig had had enough time as Bond to already be accused of "losing a step" due to age (since when has this been an issue with Bond?), and the emotion evoked from the scene with Judi Dench towards the end was muted (for me) slightly by the fact that Craig hasn't spent that much time with her yet; we have, but he hasn't.

All in all, a movie I'd recommend to moviegoers, but one that I'd put an asterisk by if talking to a fellow Bond fanatic.
EdH | November 12, 2012 9:14 AM | 

I saw Skyfall last night and really enjoyed it. Craig is #2 only to Connery, and Bardem is perhaps the creepiest Bond villain of all time.

I thought the theme of "old school" vs. "new guard" was interesting, if overdone a bit. When M was testifying to the parliamentary inquiry, she argues that the world has changed - that we're not fighting against enemies one can find on a map, but those that are, essentially, stateless - and that is why MI5 and the 00 branch is more critical than ever.

However, it's not like 00 branch - or MI5 in the Bond universe - ever really fought against states. It's always been against rogue agents (Skyfall, GoldenEye) or criminal syndicates (Quantum of Solace, anything with SPECTRE) or unaffiliated megalomaniacs hell-bent on world domination (Moonraker, Diamonds Are Forever, The Man With the Golden Gun).

I like the direction this Bond is going in, and I'm glad to see the return of Q and Moneypenny. I think the Brosnan movies swung the pendulum too much into camp, and the first two Craig movies may have swung too far the other way (well, really just Quantum, which became, for me, a generic revenge flick rather than a Bond film). Here's hoping for a happy medium in the next two.
Jim Stewart replied to comment from Bill Hays | November 12, 2012 9:18 AM | 

Bill said
"I think the Bond series needs... an evil organization with some complexity. A dozen super-criminals fighting for control of enormous amounts of money..."
Very interesting thought, Bill. Let me add they should also wear $3,000 suits and have their headquarters on Wall St. It's a natural!
Tom Trinchera | November 12, 2012 9:57 AM | 

In the Daniel Craig era of the series, I'd put Skyfall somewhere between Casino Royale (on the high end) and Quantum of Solace. And I'm happily in the minority of people who think Quantum is highly misunderstood & underappreciated.

I think the biggest thing I found disappointing about Skyfall was that Javier Bardem's excellent villain didn't have enough screen time. Seems like when Bond (and we) meets him an hour into the film, that, even though he makes good use of his time, it's too limited -- just when we're getting to know him, the finale happens.

However, I'm really liking this new approach to the series where the old formulae of the films previous to the tragedy of Die Another Day, has been done away with. I like that in the end, Bond doesn't get the girl.
Jeff | November 12, 2012 10:09 AM | 

SPOILERS

Whether you like this movie will depend entirely on your expectations. For me, it was a complete miss. If you're looking for a "James Bond" film that:

1. for the most part replaces action scenes with interminable brooding and existential angst about Why Are We Here?, What Are We Doing?, Is It Worth The Sacrifice?, Are We Worthy?, etc.;

2. features zero cool gadgets;

3. features zero cool cars (and no, the old relic at the end doesn't count);

4. features a lead "actor" who is capable of glowering morosely at the camera and just about nothing else;

5. kills off the Bond Girl in about 20 minutes with no one seeming to care; and

6. generally throws everything that makes a Bond movie a Bond movie out the window;

then this is your flick. Otherwise, it's barely worth a rental.
Wesley R. Mullen | November 12, 2012 10:34 AM | 

Dear Mr. Ebert:
My question to you is this: did you and other critics who liked Skyfall see the movie before all the trailers hit theaters and TV screens? I reviewed the film on my own website, and the big complaint that I had was that the entire opening sequence is shown in the trailers - the scenes just had to be stitched together as a narrative whole. Likewise the first hour of the movie. This took away from the surprise and thrill I should have felt seeing the action/stunts. (Minor spoiler) Once Bond arrives in London with captive Silva, the film took off for me - great stunts, genuine drama and imaginative twists to delight my inner Bond fanboy not telegraphed by the trailers.

I'll be returning to see it again, this time knowing the entire plot, to see if the film fits together as seamlessly as I suspect it really does.

Also: listening to gameskeeper Kincaide's lines, don't you think the producers of the film tried to get Connery for the role? there must be a great backstory there!

And the less said about Adele's theme song, the better. I can't even remember the tune, much less the lyrics. And Adele is no Shirley Bassey - she's not even Lulu here.

Ebert: I didn't see the trailer and try to avoid trailers in general.
Jack | November 12, 2012 10:41 AM | 

I saw Skyfall this weekend. I thought it was an excellent film and I'm very happy to have seen it. Actually, I think it was even better than Ebert's praise suggests in his review.

However, the question occurred to me as to whether "Skyfall" is a good "Bond" movie, and I'd have to say that as much as I enjoyed the film, it's probably the least Bond-like Bond movie I've seen (admittedly, I haven't seen them all). Of course, the fact that it strays from the typical Bond-formula will be a good thing for many people (including me), but for people who have come to expect the kind of escapism that the franchise has delivered time and again, it might actually be disappointing. One goes into a Bond movie expecting a formula. Bond is supposed be suave, charismatic,unyielding, and not to mention cool. Don get me wrong, Daniel Craig is all those things and more in Skyfall, but without the polish and the confidence that typifies the character in other entries. In Skyfall, we a Bond that is vulnerable and wounded. We see a Bond who isn't even respected very much within MI6 for the exception of M. We see a Bond who isn't really on top of his game or one step ahead. Aside for the brief time spent in Turkey and Hong Kong, Bond doesn't travel very much to exotic locations. The designated Bond girl gets dispensed with rather quickly, and the villain actually controls the action for most of the film.

The question then becomes is whether the formula for a James Bond movie is something that is important or not. Obviously, eschewing the formula opens up a lot of new and different places to explore the character of Bond as Skyfall does, but at the same time it unravels some quintessential qualities that fans of the franchise have come to expect. If I didn't know that Skyfall was a James Bond movie, I would think I was watching an incredibly good original action / suspense / drama film. That may not be such a bad thing, but then is it still a Bond film? In Ebert's review, a brief comparison is made about how Sam Mendes achieved in "Skyfall" what Christopher achieved in "The Dark Knight," and I'd say that's a fair comparison. I am a fan of both, but even Nolan's incarnation of Batman has its detractors for its stylistic and gritty dark choices.

Skyfall is a great movie, but is it a great James Bond movie? Everyone could have a different answer for this and not be wrong. It certainly doesn't exemplify the typical Bond-film formula. For some that will mean that it's not a good Bond movie. For others it will be the reason why it's one of the best Bond movies. I side with the latter, but I respect anyone who believes the former.
Saurabh | November 12, 2012 10:49 AM | 

Best Bond in years? Is that 3 or 4 years? I couldnt disagree more with your review. The opening scene and theme were very good, and I sat up in my seat thinking wow, might they get this right? But no. The rest of the movie was crap.

The worst thing about the movie was Bardem. The Bond franchise should not have for villain a kitchensink character. Gay, mommy issues, "acts" in every scene? A Bond villain strokes his cat, kills his henchmen with trapdoors, and is satisfied with no less than world domination.

This movie was not a Bond movie. It was a mediocre derivative action movie which stole from Batman (orphan, butler, poor combo of Joker and TwoFace for villain) and Straw Dogs (entire last act). Daniel Craig was still good though - he is the best Bond after Connery, frankly it's a pity the last two movies havent made use of him as such.
Kelvin Isaac | November 12, 2012 11:42 AM | 

Saw 'Skyfall' last Wednesday here in Antigua, West Indies. I must say I totally enjoyed the film though it wasn't your typical Bond film ie action, women, suspense.

Daniel Craig was superb!! And Judi Dench...what a perfomance! Absolutely love her!

Only Daniel Craig's James Bond could have done this story - no apologies to Sean Connery (classy), George Lazenby (no comment), Roger Moore (campy), Timothy Dalton (met him, very down to earth; his bond, too stiff) and Pierce Brosnan (too jokey).
EricJ replied to comment from Jim Stewart | November 12, 2012 11:43 AM | 

Jim Stewart wrote:
Very interesting thought, Bill. Let me add they should also wear $3,000 suits and have their headquarters on Wall St. It's a natural!

Personally, I thought Jonathan Pryce made a perfectly despicable villain as Rupert Murdoch, in "Tomorrow Never Dies". Now that's having 007 save the world from corrupt meglomaniacal madmen. ;)
(Although, at the time, Ted Turner was running his ownership of the 007 movies into the ground on his cable station, so Americans interpreted Bond's sweet-payback somewhat differently from Brit audiences.)
Andrew | November 12, 2012 11:59 AM | 

Roger,

Thanks for this opportunity, and at some point I look forward to reading through all these comments to see the perspectives of others, because I am quite frankly baffled by the overwhelmingly positive reviews and the headline on yours saying this is the "Best Bond in Years!"

As a lifelong fan of Bond, and reader of every Fleming novel and nearly every Gardner one (I gave up after that), I don't see Skyfall as a stronger entry in the canon. While QoS was almost unquestionably the worst (bad villain, lame plot, terrible dialogue), both of these films continue a storyline that makes little sense to fans of Bond: they show a Bond unhinged, out of control, and losing his edge. That isn't James Bond. Bond is ageless, which is why we've had six men in the role and don't see Connery there anymore. The suggestion that M is a dinosaur of a prior time suggests Bond is as well. That's just not true. Bond adapts.

We saw this in Casino Royale, which I and many others argue was the finest of the Bond films. Ever. But for some reason, the creators of that film misunderstood the source of their success and thought everyone loved the fact Bond was tortured by the loss of Vesper. We weren't. We loved seeing the cruel, heartless Bond of the books finally materialize (Dalton came close), Even you commented on Craig's almost humorless approach, which was spot on and what Fleming always intended. But times changes and like he should: Bond adapted. With Moore, with Brosnan - Bond became what each generation needed him to be.

But what we always needed him to be was a spy, not an action hero. But in the last two films, as you yourself suggested with QoS, Bond became a machine. You can look at Casino Royale's opening chase sequence and think that was no different, but in reality that was a cog in the larger machine. Bond then took the text message of "ELLIPSIS" and used his insights to unravel not one, but two plots of villainy. And that is where Skyfall goes oh so horribly awry.

Bond is sent to Shanghai to catch the hard drive thief, and how does he locate him? He gets a text message. Seriously? And then, how does he track down the villain? He finds a casino chip in the sniper's rifle case. Wow. That took a lot of deduction. Then there is the completely insincere seduction of the villain's mistress (Bond really needs to seduce a prostitute?). Then to see Bond too weak to save her? This is not the James Bond of the last 50 years, and I hope it isn't the Bond of the next 50.

The movie had strengths in the performances of Dench and Bardem, but the digressions into Bond's past at the end are definite no-no's. Part of why we love Bond is because we know he is damaged, but only have hints as to why. But now we know Bond clung to that past by keeping the family home. Again - totally out of character.

Watching this film reminded me of a friend's criticism of Indiana Jones & the Last Crusade. This friend, an archaeologist, lamented the fact that Indy got led around by a bunch of clues dropped in between one chase sequence after another. There was no more Professor Jones, just Indy the action hero. Now we have no more James Bond the spy, just James Bond, the action hero. Over these last two films, an icon of three generations has been lost. Hopefully, with the suggestions of the films conclusion, they intended to bring him back.

After all, his hobby *is* resurrection.
Dana Stabenow | November 12, 2012 12:01 PM | 

I swear I'm outta here after this very very last last comment--

I want to thank Roger for reposting his excellent review here and granting us the privilege of discussing it in the comments, all of which I have read and enjoyed. It's fun to see what I missed that others spotted, or intuited, or divined, or whatever.

So, "Thanks, Roger!"
John | November 12, 2012 12:15 PM | 

SPOILERS

A great ride, except for most of the scenes following the film's big reveal. Right after the climax of Bond's back story, when we finally discover where he's from and who he is, we're treated to a pretty run-of-the-mill action scene that tries to be rough and raw and gritty, but only manages to be cliched and puzzling.

It's a 5-7 hour drive from London to Scotland, depending on your exact destination. For some reason, Bond elects not to use that time and the incredible resourcefulness we've come to expect from him to procure a few weapons for the inevitable showdown with the villain. Instead, he arrives at the location he's chosen for his last stand more or less empty handed and has to rely on the estate caretaker's old shotgun and improvised nail bombs - knowing that the villain is going to be loaded for bear.

As one of my friends put it, he couldn't help thinking of Home Alone and was expecting to Bond grease a flight stairs with some cooking oil for the bad guys to fall down. It's Bond; you can't have your audience thinking of Home Alone.

Not to be too harsh, it was a great payoff to finally know what "Skyfall" means and where Bond is from, but at that point, the movie loses all its intrigue and mystery and becomes a plot-less "chase" movie.

Other than the "Skyfall" scenes, it's really a top notch flick and Mendes nailed it.
dude man | November 12, 2012 12:46 PM | 

You guys are high. The movie was mediocre at best:

-the opening sequence was about 25% as thrilling as Casino Royale with an unsatisfying conclusion.

-the opening song sucked

-there was no bond girl.

-Q was boring.

-the Moneypenny revelation fell flat.

-the villain was lame. he gets stabbed in the back and just rolls his eyes? The audience laughed at that part in my theater. Was he even taking the role seriously?

-No gambling or games of death.

-No gadgets. That would be fine if for the sake of the amusing minimalist take but it just ended up falling flat; "its called a radio".

-the ending was clearly written for Sean Connery but instead they got Albert Finney. That felt weird.

-the good parts: the location shots were really nice and in my theater the car got the only applause.

Thumbs down bro.
Don Eklund | November 12, 2012 12:53 PM | 

Dear Roger

I am very glad we are in 100% agreement. I really feel this just might be the best JB ever made. Yes I have seen them all and own them to watch again. What can they do to top this?
Devin V | November 12, 2012 1:53 PM | 

There's a stark disconnect between the strongly positive reviews I read and the rather lifeless, inconsistent movie I watched.

The film never fully committed to a single attitude toward Bond: It would push the gritty, "realistic" incarnation of Bond and then wink at the audience with a number of humorous meta references. The result was neither the hard-hitting Bond of "Casino Royale" nor the playful, womanizing Bonds of yore. It was an off-kilter muddle.

And there was so much focus on Bond's backstory (one could reasonably argue that the very idea of a Bond backstory is a bad idea; he's a persona, not a person), but there was so little effort made to actually SHOW his backstory or his attitude toward his past. Just a few sentences were thrown out here and there to flesh it out. Same goes for Javier Bardem's character. SHOW me; don't TELL me.

In my opinion, one of the lesser films of the franchise. Doesn't do much to even rise above an average action movie.
Mark | November 12, 2012 2:29 PM | 

This guy right here dwells on the superhero thing: http://mymininyff.blogspot.com/2012/11/life-after-nyff-bond-on-couch-sam.html. Personally, I only agree with him when he says Skyfall has some western elements in it. Sometimes, it felt like watching a revisionist Zimmerman western...
Ned replied to comment from David | November 12, 2012 2:55 PM | 

Thank you SO MUCH for the spoiler.

You could easily have made your complete comment without being so specific.
Steve Eifert | November 12, 2012 3:09 PM | 

I suspect that they wanted Connery for the old Scot part. Imagine that? Right after I teared up seeing the car, then Connery. I think it'd probably be too much. But the casting thought totally took me out of the end of the movie.
Shawn Sullivan | November 12, 2012 4:07 PM | 

When I was a teenager, during the Roger Moore and Timothy Dalton years, I used to let out a comical yelp whenever Bond walked to the center of the screen in the beginning, turned to the audience and shot his gun through what D. Parsons above calls the rifling grooves. I was never too loud about it; I really just wanted my friends to hear it. I admit I thought I was quite the wit. I gave up the act by the time Pierce Brosnan took over. I suppose I'd still chuckle today if I heard someone else do it.

What is your favorite Bond movie?
A fan | November 12, 2012 5:18 PM | 

Helllooooooo Roger,

Well, this comment/letter is not about the new James Bond movie, but instead on two classics that I saw over the weekend.

On Friday I saw the Renoir’s Rules of the Game, and have to say, it blew me away. I do not know all the finer points of film making, but the dialogue was so good, the story so good, it was a masterful film. It really reminded me of the times before facebook and cell phones, and how people used to actually get together in the flesh, instead of being absorbed in their digital world.

On Saturday I saw Tokyo Story, and that was just one of the most beautiful film I have ever seen. In your review you mention how it is a story filled with characters that we know all too well, and it is very true. I guess it is just the difference of cultures, but I just wanted to yell out to the children to respect and attend to their parents. The parents made the trip primarily to visit their children and grandchildren, not just to see the sights of Tokyo. One of my favorite scenes occurs relatively early on into the film, and that is the scene with the grandmother and her smallest grandchild when they go out for a walk. I sincerely hoped the child would be the redeemer for the offspring, but alas, he was still too young to understand the gravity of the situation. The actress who played Noriko gave one of the most beautiful performances I have ever seen. The entire cast gave a great performance, to be honest, and it did not really feel like it was acting. In the film Ajami, in the special features, the director and the cast would talk about how the director would have exercises for his actors so that they were not acting, and in that film too, it did not seem like acting, but rather that the camera was recording real life events. It is so sad that instead of the grandparents’ own family being the biggest reason for joy in their visit; it is the people who are not blood-related to them. In particular it is Noriko, who even after all those years have passed since her husband died, still honors his memory and welcomes them into her home. The last half hour or so is when the damn breaks and when we finally get to see the characters express what we have all along been thinking.

Also, do you think the more recent film Departures pays respect to Tokyo Story? Like I said, I don’t understand all the finer points of filmmaking like camera work and editing, but I do enjoy a good story. Hehe, I guess that is why I can’t stand those art house films that have characters but no dialogue, footage but no plot.

Furthermore Mr. Ebert, I want to thank you for inspiring my love for film. I am by no means a film buff, but I really appreciate a good film. You, along with a former co-worker of mine, are the two principal reasons why I like it as much as I do. Roeper likes to brag how he has never walked out of a film (White Noise anyone?) In response to the Transformer 2 fans though, you said that there are too many good films out there to be wasting time on bad ones, and I can’t help but agree.

Till next time,
A fan
Mike Doran aka Lowbrow Crank | November 12, 2012 5:23 PM | 

Over the years, I've seen many, but not all, of the Bond movies.

They just never rang that much of a bell with me.

Whenever I see one of the very early ones from the '60s, I'm always struck by their artifcialty: the color (colour?) always seems absurdly vivid, much like Disney live-action movies of the same period. Likewise the pictorial clarity, as though film is supposed to be sharper than actual human eyesight.
And the dialog is almost brittle in its skirting of the rough stuff (remember how people in movies weren't allowed to swear until the late '60s?).

If all of that seems like criticism, let me be clear:
This is what I liked about these movies.

Since the Bond stories start out as outrageous, trying to make them "dark 'n' serious" in the present manner seems to put the filmmakers at cross purposes.

So it is that I haven't been a regular patron of Bond movies for quite a while.
But I just might go and see this new one.
This is because of three coments that appeared on this blog today (or whenever - I only got back to work today).
These were the comments of Dana Stabenow.
When I saw her name, and that it was in blue, I clicked over to see if it was the same Dana Stabenow whose mystery novels I'd been reading.
It was.
It's getting late and I've gotta get home, so why don't you all scroll back up to Dana Stabenow's comments and click on her name.
She (and her character Kate Shugak) are worth getting to know.


Oh, and while I'm here -

Roger's old friend Ed Gorman notes on his own blog that he's just returned from the Mayo Clinic, where he's been getting tests preperatory to future stem-cell treatment early next year.
If you can find any of his novels and stories, get them and read them
beachgrad05 | November 12, 2012 5:46 PM | 

It is MI6 (M EYE Six) not M16 (M one 6)

Ebert: I know. Tell me exactly where you find that error.

