Get In On Y! Fantasy Football Commissioner Appreciation Day!
Posted August 8th, 2012 at 11:08 am by Yahoo

Win tickets, fantasy football expert consultations, and more from Yahoo! Sports

Serving as commissioner of a fantasy football league can be a thankless job, but not this year. Today Yahoo! Sports announced the first-ever Commissioner Appreciation Day on Monday, Aug. 27, to recognize and reward the important roles commissioners like you play before and during fantasy football season.

Yahoo! is giving three lucky grand prize winners of Commissioner Appreciation Day the chance to win two tickets from SeatGeek to eight regular-season games of the pro football team the winner chooses. If you’re responsible for reviewing trades, collecting dues, scheduling drafts, and settling disputes, Yahoo! is making it worth your trouble this year.

Here’s what you need to do: Just go to http://football.fantasysports.yahoo.com/f1/signup and create a league on Yahoo! Fantasy Football 2012. Once you’ve established yourself as commissioner of a league, tweet your numerical League ID to @YahooSports using the hash tag #YahooCommish before 5 p.m. (PT) on Aug. 27, and you’re automatically entered to win a number of prizes leading up to Commissioner Appreciation Day. That’s it!

In addition to the grand prize, 15 commissioners will be eligible for one-on-one consultations with one of Yahoo! Sports’ Fantasy Football analysts – Andy Behrens, Brad Evans, Brandon Funston, or Scott Pianowski – and you can also have a chance to win other prizes, including Yahoo! Fantasy Football T-shirts, which will be awarded throughout the contest. All winners will be selected randomly from the pool of eligible entrants.

To kick off the contest, Yahoo! released the results of a new survey today which found that the average fantasy football player spends more than 4 hours a week prepping for their fantasy matchup, an amount of time that would earn them more than $500 working a minimum-wage job over the course of a full season. Additionally, 8% of fans admit to spending more than 10 hours a week preparing for fantasy football – the same percentage of fans, coincidentally, who report that they have been dumped due to a fantasy football obsession.

Check out the other fun findings below, and then get over to http://football.fantasysports.yahoo.com/ to set up your league and enter the contest on Twitter!

    Fantasy football over sex?: While 16% of respondents would give up sex for the entire season to win their fantasy league, more (19%) are willing to give up their mobile phone. The most respondents, 39%, would give up beer to win their league.
    Fantasy football and real money: 75% of fantasy football players are willing to bet on fantasy football, with 12% open to wagering more than $250 in their league.
    Favorite teams vs. fantasy team: 35% of fantasy football players have rooted against their favorite NFL team when they had a fantasy player on the opposing team.
    The most powerful man in sports: Roger Goodell, NFL commissioner, was considered by the most respondents (26%) to be the most powerful commissioner in professional athletics by a significant margin -- more than the NBA’s David Stern (10%), MLB’s Bud Selig (9%) and the NHL’s Gary Bettman (3%) combined.
    Gender bias?: 43% of fans think we are more likely to see a woman become President of the United States than be in charge of a professional sports league as a commissioner, and 25% think neither is likely.

