
Manage Chronic Pain & Inflammation Through Nutrition

by Chrystal on August 9, 2012

Thank you to Kelley Johnsen for her contribution on managing inflammation and chronic pain through better food choices. You really are what you eat! After reading this post, be sure to check out Kelley’s other contributions on Nutrition and check out her blog – you’ll find the link below.

 Chronic pain, ranging from headaches, back pain, knee pain, neck pain and more, accounts for a majority of Dr. appointments across America. We use the term chronic when the pain does not go away without turning to a pain reliever. There are many pain relievers to choose from such as Tylenol, ibuprofen and prescription meds. While some of these drugs help mask the pain, was the problem fixed? What about the effects these chemicals have on your liver and stomach? Pain meds can cause liver dysfunction and have long been said to be the second-most cause of ulcers.

So, let’s talk about WHY we have these pains. One of the most common reasons is from inflammation in the body. One way we create and can stop this inflammation is in our food choices.

Here are some items that cause inflammation leading to pain in the body.

    Sugars: refined, processed, white
    Grains: enriched, processed, white flours. Examples are bagels, breads, pasta, desserts.

These can cause and lead to leaky gut syndrome.

    Oils: refined and processed
    Fatty Meats

Americans eat these foods on a daily basis and they consist of 80% of the food eaten. Wow, think about that! 80% of the food choices… and it causes your pain and we chalk it up to a bad day at the office, studying too hard or not getting a good night’s rest. The inflammation caused by these foods hits joints and muscles, causing you pain, so you in turn take medications to put aband-aid on the pain instead of STOPPING it. The meds will wear off and the pain will still be there.

What can you do?

    Make a lifestyle change and transform your eating habits. Start by picking cleaner foods or try limit the use the foods listed above. Eat more fruits and vegetables.
    Use natural sweeteners instead of refined sugar. Natural sweeteners include fruits, honey, maple syrup, stevia, etc. We have many great choices that are better for the body now.
    Chose whole grains, whole wheat and brown rice. Of course if you are gluten free, you will stick to sprouted grains or cut them out entirely. Many people are finding that grains and simple carbs are best left completely out of their diet due to digestive issues.
    Better oil choices include olive oil (raw or low heat cooking only), coconut, grapeseed or pure butter (used in moderation). These oils should always be cold pressed and non-hydrogenated. Most cooking oils create Free Radicals in the body that breakdown at a cellular level, creating illness and disease.
    Opt for organic lean meats, such as skinless chicken and fresh fish.
    Foods rich in omega 3 fatty acids help to reduce and clean up areas that have been affected by inflammation.

Two Recipes for you this week
Gluten-Free Granola

    1-cup soy flour
    8 cups rolled (clean oats)
    1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut
    ½ cup sesame seeds, ground
    1 cup sunflower seeds
    ½ cup cashews
    1 tsp salt
    1 ½ cups filtered water
    ½ cup pitted dates
    1 tsp vanilla

Combine first 7 ingredients and mix well. Blend the dates, cashews and vanilla in water.  Pour into first mixture and mix well. Spread out on cookie sheets. Bake at 200° F for 2-3 hours or until lightly browned. Stir occasionally for even baking. Raisins should be added after baking, as should any other dried fruit.
Sage egg-white frittata

    9 egg whites
    3 whole eggs
    1 cup of mushrooms, cleaned and chopped
    Sea salt and pepper, for taste
    1 tsp extra virgin olive oil
    ¼ cup fresh sage leaves
    2 cups mixed greens, trimmed washed and dried

Pre-heat oven to 375° F. In a large bowl, whisk egg whites until frothy. In another bowl, whisk 3 whole eggs until frothy as well, and then fold in egg whites. Add in mushrooms and seasoning. In an oven-safe pan, heat over medium heat and add oil to bottom and sides of pan. Pour egg mixture to pan and add sage leaves. Cook low-medium for 4 minutes (until edges are set). Then place in over and continue to cook for another 5-6 minutes, until set, and add over greens.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




Teresha August 9, 2012 at 9:03 am

    I have to say I feel like Super Woman when I eat clean.
    Teresha recently posted..Things I’m Loving This Thursday

     
2 Charise @ I Thought I Knew Mama
August 9, 2012 at 9:44 am

    The frittata sounds delicious!

    I’m going to pass this post along to my cousin who has rheumatoid arthritis. Thanks for the helpful info!
    Charise @ I Thought I Knew Mama recently posted..What I Really Thought About the #BlogHer12 Conference

     
3 A Paige at a Time
August 9, 2012 at 10:06 am

    I can always tell a big difference in how I feel based on the way I eat. Unfortunately, I sometimes have very little will power . . . Baby steps, right?
    A Paige at a Time recently posted..my fair lady

     
4 Sage August 9, 2012 at 10:19 am

    This is an awesome post, thank you! I have changed my diet so much within the past year and it is amazing how much better I feel.
    Sage recently posted..Review & Interview: The Not So Wicked, Wicked Witch! by Amy Carter

     
5 Ashley August 9, 2012 at 11:52 am

    Fabulous article! I went gluten-free 2 months ago and the overall inflammation has greatly reduced. Working on the rest of the grains and sugar right now. It’s so hard but I love actually seeing the results.

     
6 Mandi
August 9, 2012 at 11:53 am

    We just switched to sprouted bread a few weeks ago. I feel the difference for sure. Great post!
    Mandi recently posted..Crayon Eater {Wordless Wednesday}

     
7 Leah McDermott August 9, 2012 at 12:04 pm

    I always notice a difference in the way I’m feeling when we don’t a typical healthy meal at home. I can’t imagine how lethargic and icky most Americans must feel all of the time!!
    Leah McDermott recently posted..EcoFriendly Laundry Series Day Five: Natural Stain Remover

     
8 Sarah August 9, 2012 at 12:53 pm

    I LOVE the GF granola recipe. I’m not gluten-intolerant, but I have been trying to cut back on refined wheat/sugars. Thanks so much!

     

