
My four favorite places on earth

I just got back from a trip to Bali and Berchtesgaden, and a reader (correctly) pointed out that I’ve referred to both destinations as my favorite place on earth. So I figured I’d make a post about my four favorite destinations, since it occurred to me that I’ve referred to all four of these places as my favorite at one point or another. I’m by no means suggesting they’re the four most amazing places on earth, but rather just the places I enjoy the most of those I’ve been to. I’m sure in 20 years I’ll have more cities on this list, but these are the four cities I could return to again and again and never get tired of.

I’ll keep the descriptions brief, though here they are:

Hong Kong — my favorite city

I’d usually much rather visit small towns and countryside than cities, though Hong Kong is an exception. First of all, I find it to be the most vibrant, exciting city in the world. But beyond that, I find it to also be one of the few foreign cities that I could actually imagine comfortably living in and not feeling “lost in translation.” Hong Kong is also a perfect blend between a bustling, cosmopolitan city, and a relaxing, calm getaway, depending on where you look. It’s just an amazing place, and I don’t think words can do the vibe of the city justice.

Queenstown, New Zealand — my favorite scenery destination

The story behind how I visited Queenstown is pretty funny. Right after I graduated high school my mom and I went on a trip to Australia and New Zealand using United miles in Air New Zealand business class. We planned about 10 days for New Zealand, though didn’t know how to split our time between cities. At the time I was exclusively loyal to Priority Club, and I saw they had four locations in New Zealand — Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, and Queenstown. Everyone I asked about New Zealand highly recommended visiting the first three cities, though oddly enough no one ever mentioned Queenstown.

As it turned out, Queenstown was one of the highlights of my trip, and I’m convinced it’s one of the most beautiful places on earth. It’s all the way in the southern tip of New Zealand, and has some of the most beautiful mountains and lakes I’ve seen anywhere. I’ll let the pictures speak for themselves. I’m really itching to return…

Berchtesgaden, Germany — my favorite adventure destination

Berctesgaden is just perfect. Perhaps I’m a bit biased since I’m German so it feels like “home,” but it’s just beautiful. I visited Berchtesgaden for the first time last year, and I remember my first reaction — “ah, so this is what fresh air smells like.” It had been years since I’ve been to a place that smells like one of those “mountain air fresheners” you’d put in your car, though Berchtesgaden most definitely does. Not only does the whole region have a lot of exciting things to do, like hiking, canoeing, visiting salt mines, cable car rides, etc., but Berchtesgaden itself is also one of the most charming towns I’ve been to, especially when they have weekend festivals. It just so happens to be that there’s a stunning InterContinental in Berchtesgaden at the top of Germany’s steepest road, which makes it all the more exciting.

Bali, Indonesia — My favorite relaxation/beach destination

Here’s how I’ve summed up Bali in the past: “It’s not that the beaches are the most impressive in the world or the sights are unlike anywhere else, but there’s some peaceful spirit to the place that I haven’t found anywhere else in the world. Oh, and the Balinese people and hands down the friendliest, most hospitable people I’ve come in contact with anywhere.”

‘Nuff said.

What are your favorite places?

Admittedly there are dozens of places I love (including the Lufthansa First Class Terminal in Frankfurt!), but the above four are my absolute favorites. Have you visited any of the above, and if so, do you agree or disagree? What are your favorite cities?

Posted on August 9th, 2012 by lucky




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





August 9th, 2012 at 8:38 am

infamousdx said,

What hotels/resorts have you stayed at in Bali besides the IC? Heading there in 2 weeks!

August 9th, 2012 at 8:41 am

Kevin said,

Agree with all of your choices, but a couple of my other favorites are Buenos Aires – the most vibrant city I’ve been to with the sense that all can be good even if the economy sucks. Similarly Jaipur (and even Agra) where you’re left wondering how such a chaotic people can create such beautiful things. Well that then brings up Siam Reap – an entire generation of men wiped out but still the most friendly people on earth.

August 9th, 2012 at 8:41 am

lucky said,

@ infamousdx — In Bali I’ve done the IC, W, and Grand Hyatt. Probably like them in that order too.

August 9th, 2012 at 8:42 am

Bruce said,

I think those are all terrific choices. I like Hong Kong and Bali — I’m not so into scenery and adventure, so I’m not sure I would have answers for those.

My favorite city would be Tokyo. I like it because of there are so many things to do there and there’s always something new. I also think it’s special because it’s so safe that I can really relax and enjoy myself.

My favorite beach/relaxation spot isn’t a beach, but it is very relaxing. I’d pick Bangkok and the Mandarin Oriental, on the banks of the Chao Phraya river. With its laid back vibe, great food (Thai food from Sala Rim Naam or Peking Duck from the Chinese House — decisions, decisions…), and spectacular service, I love hanging out there without a worry in the world.

August 9th, 2012 at 8:45 am

USairelite said,

I don’t know why and many will disagree, but my favorite city destination is Los Angeles.

August 9th, 2012 at 8:45 am

Serendipity said,

I have been to Hong Kong. I agree with you completely. I guess you might have not experienced the old airport – landings at that airport were dramatic to experience and technically demanding for pilots.

August 9th, 2012 at 8:48 am

lucky said,

@ USairelite — I’m a huge fan of LA too. Definitely top 10 for me.

@ Serendipity — Sad I never get to fly to Kai Tak. :(

August 9th, 2012 at 8:50 am

jimbo said,

Off topic: Stunning photos – did you take them yourself?

August 9th, 2012 at 8:53 am

lucky said,

@ jimbo — Thanks! Yes I did. :)

August 9th, 2012 at 9:01 am

Lea said,

I spent a week in Queenstown and had a ball there as there’s so much to do. Can’t wait to go back.

August 9th, 2012 at 9:03 am

John said,

LA? Did I hear that correctly?

I live here. Where are you going that I’m not?

August 9th, 2012 at 9:04 am

gpapadop said,

In Bali, what is the BEST bang for a hotel on points?

August 9th, 2012 at 9:05 am

lucky said,

@ John — LOL, maybe I just suffer from “grass is greener on the other side” syndrome.

August 9th, 2012 at 9:05 am

lucky said,

@ gpapadop — That’s a toughie, because Bali is a destination that typically has reasonably priced hotels, and the high end hotels are also expensive with points. Purely in terms of value I’d say the Hyatt Bali is pretty tough to beat at only 5K per night. But it also wouldn’t be my first choice in Bali…

August 9th, 2012 at 9:08 am

Mike said,

Can’t disagree with three out of the four as I have yet to visit, but I do love Berchtesgaden!

August 9th, 2012 at 9:10 am

Delta Points said,

@Lucky – you are so right, there is no place like home:

http://boardingarea.com/blogs/deltapoints/files/2012/06/summer-place-syd-koster-wide-screen.jpg

Nothing will top this to me! – René

August 9th, 2012 at 9:15 am

Xandrios said,

I see LA mentioned a few time. Would anybody please explain why? Maybe I am missing something..

August 9th, 2012 at 9:26 am

Nancy said,

For me it’s a coin toss between Hong Kong & Singapore. Hong Kong for all the reasons you mentiong & Singapore because how can you not love a city state where the national past times are eating & shopping.

Bali is still my all time favorite beach destination on the planet. The Balinese are just so darn nice!

August 9th, 2012 at 9:29 am

Dan said,

@gpapadop

I’d have to agree with lucky. All of the hotels on Nusa Dua (where the 5* international chains mostly are) are pretty expensive on points these days. W ain’t cheap either.

My wife and I have reserved a suite at the Bali Hyatt in October, costing 8,000 points per night. That might be the best bang for the buck.

August 9th, 2012 at 9:32 am

Dan said,

@lucky

What’s your first pick in Bali? The wife and I are staying at four different places in Bali/Lombok — two local places and two chains. I couldn’t pass up a suite at the Bali Hyatt for 8k points/night. I also caved and paid for a villa ($400/night++) at the W.

Also, glad to hear you like HKG. We’re staying for 4 nights at the Conrad HKG before we head to Bali. Bali is a repeat for us, but HKG is a first (at least leaving the airport, anyway).

August 9th, 2012 at 9:33 am

Dan said,

@nancy

When I saw SIN a few years ago, it didn’t impress me — felt pretty sterile. Maybe I didn’t get out and eat enough :)

August 9th, 2012 at 9:35 am

RT said,

Nice post Lucky! I enjoy write ups like this

August 9th, 2012 at 9:36 am

lucky said,

@ Dan — Excellent choice in Hong Kong, love the Conrad!

As far as Bali goes, I still really like the InterContinental and think it’s the best balance between value and luxury for a club room.

I thought the W was an awesome resort, though it wasn’t in any way Balinese — it could’ve been in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Florida, and I wouldn’t have known the difference.

I’m really tempted to try the St. Regis Bali, though it’s outrageously expensive. I think the Hyatt and Grand Hyatt are a great option on points, be it for a suite or standard room.

August 9th, 2012 at 9:38 am

Ryan said,

In terms of cities, for me it is (in order):

1. Hong Kong;
2. Sydney;
3. San Francisco; and
4. Buenos Aires.

August 9th, 2012 at 9:39 am

Divyesh said,

What about Singapore Airlines First Class flights!?!

August 9th, 2012 at 9:51 am

ed said,

I agree with @Bruce: Tokyo has got to be one of the most exciting cities. For Americans, there is just so much wonderful weirdness there, but in a completely safe environment! No place else like that on this planet!

August 9th, 2012 at 9:57 am

entrada said,

Lucky, I learned about the IC Berchtesgaden from your posts and I now plan to stay there in late October for a few nights. You mention the steepest road in Germany leads to the hotel. The web site also mentions this. How difficult is the drive up and down from the hotel? Also, any tips on how to get Lucky with a great room there? I’m not an IC Ambassador like you.

August 9th, 2012 at 9:59 am

lucky said,

@ entrada — Are you an Ambassador member? If not I’d recommend joining for $200, especially if you can stay over a weekend and use a “buy one get one free” weekend night certificate.

As far as the street goes, it can take a bit getting used to if you don’t usually drive stick, but as long as it’s not icy you shouldn’t have any issues.

August 9th, 2012 at 10:10 am

Charlie said,

My four favorite places:

- Kangaroo Island, Australia
- Santorini, Greece
- Barcelona, Spain
- Sydney, Australia

August 9th, 2012 at 10:11 am

Ozaer N. said,

Excellent Choices Ben ; I must say, that German place ( I wont even try to pronounce/spell it) looks like a painting you would find at my parents house… Although Bali looks amazing, I did find Redang Island, Malaysia to be spectacular.

August 9th, 2012 at 10:16 am

Noel said,

I absolutely love Queenstown too. One of the coolest places around. I’m actually heading back in Feb 2014 (too far away). Any tips on booking an award ticket? I see a lot of posts on getting to Australia, but not a lot on getting to New Zealand. Any brilliant ideas?

August 9th, 2012 at 10:27 am

lucky said,

@ Noel — Ever since Qantas stopped flying from Los Angeles to Auckland and Air New Zealand more or less stopped releasing premium cabin award space between the US and New Zealand, your best bet is to just route through Australia. The other option is to route through Asia, as Air New Zealand releases a good bit of award space on their Shanghai and Tokyo routes.

Good luck and enjoy Queenstown!

August 9th, 2012 at 10:33 am

Jon H. said,

Gotta agree that Hong Kong is awesome! I managed to get over there on one of the UA 4 mile tickets, and had a blast for a weekend running around the city! Will definitely be back to it again to see more!

August 9th, 2012 at 10:44 am

Philipp said,

City – Lisbon
Scenary – Iceland
Adventure Destination – Zermatt/Cervinia
Relaxation – St Barth

Let me add 2 more categories:
Overall Country – Italy
History destination – Egypt

Off course I still have plenty of places to go and see, but these were places that I really enjoyed being and would not mind coming back over and over again.

August 9th, 2012 at 10:52 am

DavisCalifJr said,

1) The southern lakes region of Switzerland (Lake Lugano, Como areas). Great food, sites and climate for relaxing.
2) Tokyo – so vibrant and safe.
3) Kyoto – Gorgeous in the Fall.
4) Malibu – close by for long weekend getaways.

Would really love to go to Bali and Hong Kong. I just don’t do humidity well so that eliminates many places on the planet. But the pictures sure look wonderful.

August 9th, 2012 at 11:19 am

jbcarioca said,

City- I agree with Hong Kong. I have loved it since my first time there in 1967.
Scenery- The Amazon, slight bias towards Ariau http://www.ariautowers.com
Adventure- I’m with Philipp. I have spent a couple delightful weeks in Zermatt often in the last thirty years, there is no better or more varied ski destination, including a day trip to Cervinia
Relaxation- Saint-Paul de Vence, near Nice, France more than 25 years of part-time living there has made me deeply addicted to the area

August 9th, 2012 at 11:26 am

harvson3 said,

@lucky: “I thought the W was an awesome resort, though it wasn’t in any way Balinese — it could’ve been in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Florida, and I wouldn’t have known the difference.”

Funny, that’s my impression of all of Nusa Dua.

Personally, I left my heart in San Francisco. But Borobudur at sunrise was a recent highlight.

August 9th, 2012 at 11:30 am

Ken Y. said,

When will you be in HKG next? I go back every other month and would show you around the “countryside” where tourists don’t venture!

August 9th, 2012 at 11:31 am

lucky said,

@ Ken — I’ll definitely be there in January and February, though probably sooner as well. Will let you know!

August 9th, 2012 at 11:51 am

Andras said,

Hana, Maui
Sydney, Australia
Rome, Italy

August 9th, 2012 at 12:05 pm

Kris Ziel said,

Nice pictures. Now I know where the image next to your articles on the boarding area homepage comes from.

August 9th, 2012 at 12:06 pm

mohamed b said,

Beirut Beirut and Beirut no wonder it was classified top 1destination on cnn travel or new york times,and just one adress to stay the IC phoenicia,i ve visited 67 intercontinental hotels from bali to sydney,london to rio but the one in beirut is the top,not a singke city in the workd will give you the opportunity to swim abd in less than 30 min ski in the mountains.

August 9th, 2012 at 12:10 pm

Julie said,

I love Malta, specifically the tiny island off the coast, Gozo. So beautiful!
and Venice. Amazing to finally see the place that you had seen pictures/heard about your whole life.

August 9th, 2012 at 12:23 pm

chris said,

sydney – without a doubt my favorite place on earth!

@ imfamousdx – look at the laguna in bali, it’s a starwood luxury collection and was immaculate when i was there, much better than grand hyatt, conrad or westin in my opinion

August 9th, 2012 at 1:18 pm

DJ said,

Am I allowed to say Walt Disney World, there’s something magical about driving through that archway……

Back in the real world, as far as cities go, I love Chicago and Tokyo, both very different cities. Scenery….. Maybe Scotland, or Patagonia.

August 9th, 2012 at 1:19 pm

Jason said,

1) Stockholm
2) Buenos Aires
3) Florence
4) Madrid/Barcelona

August 9th, 2012 at 1:50 pm

TravelSort said,

Looks like scenic Berchtesgaden has replaced HCMC and Tokyo or at least pushed them down the list http://travelsort.com/blog/ben-schlappig-my-favorite-cities-in-the-world

Looking forward to Hong Kong and Bali soon :)

August 9th, 2012 at 2:31 pm

Ace said,

1) Berlin
2) Ibiza
3) Bali
4) The next new country/airport

