
DANDRUFF- What, why and how?

Posted by admin on August 9, 2012 in Uncategorized · 0 Comments

Do the scales shedding from your head worry you? The shedding scales are called dandruff and are dandruff a disease? Is there any effective treatment for this? Is the complete recovery from dandruff possible? Like this a number of questions may arise in your mind while hearing dandruff. Actually what is dandruff?

Dandruff is normally defined as the dead skin cells found on your scalp or in your ears. It is found to be common at the post puberty period. It is found on both male and female. It is a general Scalp disorder seen in about 50%of the population. The epidermal layer continues to restore itself and as a result dead cells are pressed outwards. Due to some reasons, in some people this shedding is found to be very rapid. A dandruff affected person requires only 2-7 days for such a shedding of cells where a person with out dandruff requires about one month. Subjecting to extreme cold and heat may increase dandruff in your head. Some seasonal changes also affect dandruff. It is said that  it get worse during the winter season. The dandruff is assumed to be formed as a result of following required factors. The first one is the skin oil called sebum. The second one is the by-products formed because of the micro organisms on the skin. The third factor is the individual susceptibility.

The dandruff formed on the scalp may cause irritations on your skin such as rashes or itching. This may result in hair fall. The specialized shampoos for dandruff are available in the market. Shampoo the hair each day to keep dandruff away. Do not allow the sweat to remain on your head. Wash it off properly. Try to control going after the itchy patches i.e. do not try to scratch the head always. This may cause wound by your nail. If an injury is formed then try to use mild shampoo until the wound heals.

Traditional treatments in countries like India and china use egg oil for the treatment of dandruff. Selenium sulphide is also used to control dandruff. But the excess oiliness found on some people after the treatment using the selenium sulphide is considered as a side effect of this.

If you put little care on your hair matters and scalp, you can avoid the formation of dandruff. If dandruff has affected you then proper remedies should be taken to control it. Other wise it may lead to many problems including hair fall. Remember that it has the power to affect even your self confidence level due to complexes of getting noticed.
