	
Pickled Peaches

My grandaddy loved pickled peaches. They came in a jar, peeled but still whole, covered in a sweet and tangy syrup that had cloves and cinnamon sticks floating around. We always had them at Thanksgiving and at other times of the year as a special treat. I grew up loving them too and my parents will still surprise me with a jar every now and then.

The tricky thing about pickled peaches is that, because they’re whole, they slide around when you try to cut them (especially when you’re a kid). And, unfortunately, the prepared ones usually contain a ton of sugar.

When I skimmed my copy of The Sweet Life by Sam Talbot (a former Top Chef contestant who has diabetes), I was excited to see a simple recipe for sliced pickled peaches. His version uses stevia, cider vinegar, lemon zest and lemon juice in addition to the agave nectar and allspice. I had some honey-ginger balsamic vinegar that I thought would work perfectly and I chose not to use the stevia. I didn’t have a lemon handy, so I left out the zest and juice too. Feel free to experiment to see what combination works for you.

We served these peaches alongside grilled chicken, with whole-grain pancakes, on top of a salad and as a snack. I’m sure they would also be tasty with some yogurt or cottage cheese as a dessert. I can’t wait to try them in Peach Mango Crisp.

After we finished the peaches, we decided we didn’t want the yummy juice to go to waste, so we just kept adding fresh peaches until we used all of the juice.

Keep a jar in the refrigerator for a quick afternoon snack.

Recipe

Adapted from The Sweet Life by Sam Talbot

3 tablespoons agave nectar
2 tablespoons honey-ginger balsamic vinegar (or cider vinegar)
1 cup cold water
1-1/2 teaspoons ground allspice
3 fresh peaches, peeled, pitted and sliced (about 12 slices per peach)

In a large jar with a tight-fitting lid, whisk together the agave nectar, vinegar, water and allspice. Add the peaches, cover and refrigerate for at least an hour (overnight is better). You may want to stir them a few times if the peaches on top aren’t completely submerged in the liquid.

Makes 6 servings
Per serving: 65 calories, 0g fat (0g sat), 0mg cholesterol, 2mg sodium, 17g carb, 1g fiber, 15g sugar, 1g protein

Nutritional Analysis: Most of the calories in these peaches come from sugars, but they are very low in Saturated Fat, Cholesterol and Sodium and are a good source of Vitamin C.

