Malawi Police replaces spokesman over Facebook slurs

By Collins Mtika, Nyasa Times
	August 9, 2012   ·   13 Comments 	


The Malawi Police Service has replaced its spokesperson for Mzuzu Police Station, Edward Longwe, following his unpalatable comments on the popular social networking site, Facebook, over the Station’s management style including condoning of corrupt practices and general maladministration, Nyasa Times has gathered.

Longwe, who is currently on a month long holiday, confirmed the development on Thursday.

He has been replaced by Sergeant Chapola.

On July 5th 2012, the station’s matriarch and Officer-in-Charge Gertrude Kachinga ordered the arrest of Longwe accusing him of the “deeply offensive” comments on Facebook.

Longwe, who spent two days in the cooler with his police uniform, angered the Police top brass with his attacks on the social media. He was only released after his blood pressure shoot.

Ironically, Longwe learnt his fate on the same Facebook group of the law enforcers.

“I asked Davie Chingwalu (Malawi Police Service National Spokesperson) he just confirmed my demotion but said he does not know the reason,” said Longwe in an SMS response to Nyasa Times.

Longwe’s comments seen by Nyasa Times queried the management for allowing duty or assignment Officers for demanding MK6, 000 from each Cop whom they assign at either Dunduzu or Lusangazi road block per shift. Normally a road block is manned by five of six Cops.

Similarly, he bashed the tendency of these officers of demanding MK2,000 from Cops they assign for private security work.





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




nkhukuzi Says: 	August 9th, 2012 at 7:42 pm

	

There is more to this, demanding MK6,000 means that the bwanas know that these juniors make money at these road blocks, the big question though is how???, I should think from these fake milandus that they heap on you and me as we pass through these gates. or should it be from yafanta that you and me are asked about as we pass by the temporally check points. Koma ndiye mulemera eeee!

 
12
	Mazulumazulu Says: 	August 9th, 2012 at 6:43 pm

	

Ayi a Longwe munapanga sanje chifukwa ndalama zimakudutsani pa phuno kupita kwa anzanu koma mkanakhala inuyo bwezi mukunkhala chete.Anthu timawoneka a chilungamo ku khala kuti sitikudya nawo.

 
11
	Mgwala wa bulu Says: 	August 9th, 2012 at 6:03 pm

	

Police Reform Service shud have 2 accept the corrupt practises occured in their system rather than intimidating the officers used 2 critisize the malpractice, bravo Longwe keep on unvailing them

 
