The American Casino Aristocracy

Our country has a horrible history in the way its treated its native populations, both in the distant past and in more contemporary times, but I'm sorry, this isn't right either.

    Today, the Shakopee Mdewakanton are believed to be the richest tribe in American history as measured by individual personal wealth: Each adult, according to court records and confirmed by one tribal member, receives a monthly payment of around $84,000, or $1.08 million a year.... 

    “We have 99.2 percent unemployment," Stanley R. Crooks, the tribe’s president, said as he smiled during a rare interview. "It’s entirely voluntary."

Dukes and Viscounts didn't have it so well. At least they had an estate they had to manage, or armies they were responsible for raising if war came to their country.

While I'm all for having a wide safety net and offering plenty of support for any population in need, and even for going above and beyond that with historically oppressed populations like Native Americans, it's well past time we close the loophole of allowing tribes to supersede state gambling law.

It's a new form of aristocracy and there is no excuse for it. To pay for that aristocracy, it robs tax dollars from cities, towns and states those casinos are in, even while those casinos cause tens of millions (some studies have even suggested much more) in costs to those cities, towns and states... every year.

Tribal casinos are what has led this country down the casino-fed path of a race to the bottom, in which every state competes for ever smaller slices of a dwindling pie, in a mad attempt to "recapture lost revenue," causing far more harm from it than good. It all started with Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun -- and it hasn't stopped since, no matter how poorly casinos are doing nowadays and how saturated the market has become.

Everyone should bear in mind that Governor Patrick just weeks ago signed a deal with one of the Bay State's own tribes, so they can get themselves some state-sponsored aristocracy. Bear in mind the fact that the tribe didn't even have permission to build the casino from the federal government, and all signs indicated they wouldn't get it, either.

How many tens of millions of dollars will a few dozen people share, funded through the economic losses of Massachusetts workers, simply because of the family they were born into? 
