Solar Power Systems for your Home

Many people believe that home solar power systems will eventually replace fossil-fuel based energy sources as the way that most people power their homes. This free and never-ending way to create energy is a much better way to create power for your home, and is more affordable than ever.

So, what is the most important thing that you should know about home solar power systems?

Did you know that the amount of energy that is absorbed into the earth, ocean and atmosphere every hour is more than the entire amount of energy that mankind used in the entire year of 2002. That's what MIT's publication "Powering the Planet: Chemical Challenges in Solar Energy Utilization" states. The earth absorbs energy from the sun in the form of heat and light, and the advent of home solar power systems means that the average citizen and homeowner can now put that energy to use!

That said, the most important thing you need to know about home solar power systems is that you can continue making electricity as long as the sun keeps on shining. Even if everyone had one of these amazing systems, you wouldn't run out of energy. These systems are now available to homeowners in the form of photovoltaic solar cells, which convert sun energy into electricity and solar geysers that transfer the sun's energy directly to water, making it hot enough for ordinary home use. The solar cells that most people use for their home solar power systems are arranged into a solar panel.

 

Solar panels need to be installed in different ways according to the area in which they are located. Placing solar panels in an area where they will get the most sun exposure and angling them so that they get the best exposure will allow you to get the most energy from them. The optimum orientation of solar panels depends on which hemisphere you are in and on the season of the year.

Solar powered systems can both heat the home and provide electricity for the home. You can even use them to heat your swimming pool!

Solar Panels have so many advantages, and so few disadvantages. Using any other sources of energy will seem like a poor choice. Here are the main advantages and disadvantages of solar power:

Advantages of Solar Energy

Saves you money

    After recouping the initial investment the energy is practically free.
    The payback period will be shorter the more energy you use.
    If you produce more energy than you use your utility company can buy the extra electricity from you, this is called net metering.
    Solar enery is not affected by the supply and demand for oil and therefore not subject to the ever increasing price of petrol.
    The saving will last for many years as solar panels are very durable and have a long lifespan of 20 - 30 years.
    Solar energy indirectly reduces health costs.

Environmentally friendly

    Solar energy is clean, renewable (unlike gas, oil and coal) and sustainable.
    Solar panels do not release carbon dioxide or other gases into the air.
    Actively contributes to the decrease of green house emissions.

Independant/semi-independant

    Can be utilized to offset utility-supplied energy consumption.
    Can operate entirely independent, not requiring a connection to a power or gas grid at all.
    Solar Energy supports local job and wealth creation, fuelling local economies.

Low maintenance

    Solar energy systems are virtually maintenance free and will last for decades.
    Once installed, there are no recurring costs.
    They operate silently, have no moving parts, do not release offensive smells and do not require you to add any fuel.
    More solar panels can easily be added in the future when your family's needs grow.

Disadvantages of Solar Energy

    The initial cost is the main disadvantage of installing a solar energy system.
    The cost is still higher than utility supplied electricity but as fosil feul preices rise it is becoming more competitive.
    Solar panels require quite a large area for installation to achieve a good level of efficiency.
    The production of solar energy is influenced by the presence of clouds or pollution in the air.
    No solar energy is produced at night but this problem can is solved by using batteries.
    As far as solar powered cars go - their slower speed might not appeal to everyone caught up in today's rat race.

So, why haven't more people been using solar systems? Especially now, in a world where our climate is rapidly changing, and our environment is more polluted than ever, and fossil fuels are starting to cost an arm and a leg?

Most people are nervous about not getting enough sunshine. If the sun's not out, then the solar panels can't collect energy. It's not always sunny. And, even though fossil fuels have gotten a lot more expensive in recent years, these fuels are still less expensive than solar power.

And last of all, if you do live in a very sunny area, then you might even be able to use your home solar power systems to make excess energy, which you can then sell back to your power company since you won't be able to use it.

Every day, the benefits of solar power systems for the home are getting more and more obvious. Our society is becoming more and more energy conscious. Even though fossil fuels are still available, solar power is available as long as the sun is out, and the production of it cannot be controlled by companies or the government.

Solar power systems for the home are an energy source that is environmentally friendly, and will eventually be less expensive as more people start wanting to use it. Whereas fossil fuels will only get more expensive so long as people continue buying it. These home systems can save you tons of money when it comes to conditioning your home's air.

There are even tax breaks in a few states or countries for people who have such systems for their homes. These tax breaks alone can make it easier for you to afford a system for your home.

Take advantage of the amazing new solar technology available to you today by installing a solar power system in your home. You'll be happy you did.

Need more info? Explore these highly recommended resources:
Solar Chargers for Phones and Batterries
Solar Camping Equipment
The Solar Power Industry in South Africa
Home Solar Power Systems site that provides you with wealth of information
Smart Grid Electronics
Moving towards smarter houses, power grids, and generation.
Everything you need to know about the electronics for renewable energy.





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS





#1 munya 2011-06-02 13:28
i need a solar system to power up my house
 
 
 
+1 #2 Andre van der veen 2011-07-14 13:14
i need to know if some one can help me to make a house green.in terms off solar power and water usages.and i lay out off costs,benefits, disatvantages,m aintanance requirements,li fe expextence.how long will a system like this take to pay it self off.this system must be totally independant off eskom.
 
 
 
+1 #3 Andre van der veen 2011-07-14 13:19
I need to know if somebody can assist me with a "ecco green house". My client wants to make use of total alternative energy resources. This must contain advantages and disadvantages, cost breakdown, maintenance required, life expectancy.
 
 
 
0 #4 DICKSON MADYARA 2011-08-04 20:40
Am looking for a solar panel and inventor to run a 230v fridge, Stove ,Tv, Home Theatre and Lights (60w*8 cfl plus 1 * 58w florescent bulb).
Please advise with the price and best type of solar system to accommodate the above.

Regards ,
Dickson
Cell : 0827117350
 
 
 
0 #5 HENNIE DE BEER 2011-09-07 10:00
Good day,

Can you quote me on 30 solar systems for small houses asap.

Thank you
082 419 6112
 
 
 
0 #6 Mikhail Janowski 2011-09-12 15:30
Hello,

That's a lot of houses, you must be a developer of some kind. I commend your choice of looking into the use of solar systems. Solar Homes does not sell solar equipment but I can recommend www.sustainable.co.za they have a wide selection of solar products and systems that might be suitable for your purpose. You did not specify if you wanted electric or hot water but they have both.

For a greener future!
 
 
 
-1 #7 shani 2011-09-19 14:10
I need quotations for solar panels for my house in Germiston, Gauteng!!
 
 
 
-1 #8 Sarel Steyn 2011-10-03 22:31
We offer Solar Panels and SMA inverters at current international prices (whole sale and project based) in South Africa, we have stock of roughly 100kw plus SMA inverters in JHB.Our prices start at R14 Wp for panels and R11 000 for 1700 sunny boy SMA inverters. with the current eskom tariff our systems has a payback of roughly 6 years. I can be contacted at sarel.steyn@socraplex .com or our offices in JHB at Iskhus Power. www.iskhus.co.za
 
 
 
+1 #9 Florence Prefab Home 2011-11-06 08:56
20 minutes of instant house, we offer energy efficient insulated panels' emergency accommodation or office which are transported in flat packs. Easy to install, its economical and can last a lifetime.
 
 
 
-1 #10 Ben louly 2012-02-15 16:46
I need someone help me find company to sell
portable solar power for remot erea in my country
Mauritania.
001-202-258-9552
Ben
Thx
 
 
 
0 #11 DESMOND ANYANWU 2012-07-04 21:23
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

IMO IS A STATE IN NIGERIA THAT IS BEDEVILED WITH ERATIC ENERGY LOSS AND THIS HAS BEEN A PROBLEM TO THE STATE, IT IS MY DESIRE TO ENQUIRE IF THIS BODY CAN ASSIST THE STATE GOVERNMENT IN THE AREA OF ENERGY CONSERVATION AS WELL AS INVEST IN SOME AREAS LIKE SOLAR ENERGY TO ASSIST THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN THE STATE WITH ELECTRICITY.

THANKS,

DESMOND.
0732801289
