Monday, August 6, 2012
Toasty Enough, Already?

Can you spot a trend? Each 1 ppm increase in net CO2 concentrations (the difference between what is emitted and what is absorbed (mostly by oceans)) denotes a net increase of about 14 billion tons (gigatons, alias GT) of CO2 added to our atmosphere. From http://www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/ccgg/trends/#mlo_growth. In general, CO2 has approximately a century half-life in the atmosphere, mostly due to it being absorbed by a somewhat alkaline ocean. However, if the surface layer (about 100 meters worth) gets saturated in CO2 and acidifies, the rate of CO2 "consumption" by the ocean decreases significantly. And yes, that is happening, too, particularly where surface waters are "old" and not recently "upwelled" from the depths (its a pattern called the thermohaline circulation: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermohaline_circulation)...

And this is what that growth rates leads to - this trend is a bit easier to divine and also more familiar (from http://www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/ccgg/trends/#mlo_full):


Well, a bit of relief to the heat and drought in WNY came today, but since the sum of all weather over a decade or so makes our climate, some will no doubt now say that Global Warming is not real - after all, the "heat is off". Or maybe they will "compromise" and agree that the answer to the Global Warming puzzle is still yet to be determined, now that a break in the heat spell has arrived. Why look, this evening the sweat is not dripping off of anyone not in air conditioning, unlike Saturday evening, so we can hold off thinking about how our country is leading the world to a warmer and more hellish like climate over much of the planet where it is, by today's standards, just warm, right?

Oh well, the answer to that one is WRONG! Even that world class exemplar of arrogance and all round "climate skeptic" who is often paid by the likes of the Koch fiends, Richard Muller, says that there is no doubt about it, the surface of our planet is getting warmer, and this increasing warmth is related to the increase in CO2 concentrations in our atmosphere. Duh! He just confirmed what the vast majority of climate scientists confirmed at least a decade or two ago, especially by Dr. Michael Mann, author of "the Hockey Stick" graph. Here is the graph he did in 1999 (from http://www.grida.no/publications/other/ipcc_tar/?src=/climate/ipcc_tar/wg1/fig2-20.htm)


And here is a zoomed in portion/more recent history part of that graph:

And here is a related graph from Muller's BEST group effort (from http://berkeleyearth.org/volcanoes/). Dr. Muller may be a very smart physicist, but he has chosen sides (totally pro- fossil fuel and pro-nuke corporate friendly, with scorn for all else) and that seems to determine which policies he is pushing/advocating for. He has been all over the media and press lately, since he used to be a hard core "Global Warming skeptic", but now is "sort of not", though when it comes to wind energy, well, he's as cold as ice (or deep space, at 4 Kelvin or - 467 F) to that idea.



So, the facts are in case closed, right. WRONG! Do facts even have any relevance anymore for far too many people? After all, what are YOU going to do about it? That's where its at, and as FZ stated so rightly, that's the crux of the biscuit, and then some.

And yes, it all boils down to a simple equation:

Accumulation = Input - Output

For CO2, about half of that emitted into the air would normally be absorbed by trees, soils and water within a century, but 25% of it will still be present in the air in 5000 years  (see GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH LETTERS, VOL. 35, L04705, doi:10.1029/2007GL032388, 2008) - it's a complicated mix of chemistry, geology, biology, oceanography and transport. But in general, if humans were to stop burning fossil fuels "full stop", we would see that CO2 level drop. Not that there is any chance of that right away... Before humans really started emitting CO2 on a mass scale via burning fossil fuels, the CO2 concentration in the air was around 280 ppm. Now it's around 393 ppm....

However, that same equation also works for heat. Since less than 0.06% of the heat coming to the surface comes from geothermal (basically the decay of uranium, thorium and potassium 40 in the earth), almost all the heat input for the surface of the planet comes from the sun. This has to be balanced by the heat radiated into outer space, otherwise there is a net accumulation of heat. This gets experienced as both less ice and warming temperatures, but once the earth has its icecaps melted, then the temperature rise would be pretty dramatic. And a hotter planet radiates heat out into space at greater rates, so eventually a balance would come about. However, such drastic changes in climate (going cold or warm) tend to wipe out significant to most existing species of life on the planet, especially big complex ones like humans. And ain't that a peach....

One of the better things done in the BEST study is that they also admitted that the output of the sun has been essentially constant over the last several thousand years. So, varying input of heat has zip to do with the rise in Global surface temperatures (in other words, input has been essentially constant). What has changed is that the rate of heat output radiated into space has slowed, and this is caused mostly by increases in Greenhouse gases, and most notably CO2. In fact, the biology of earth actually tends to set the global surface temperature via controlling the CO2 content of the atmosphere.

Of late, Richard Muller has been attempting to hawk his book and claim that his well funded data analysis has confirmed what was already known. And since he is SO smart (about hustling money from Koch Industries and Friends), people should listen to his solution for all that CO2 pollution, and that is "to frack the beans out of the world". Yes, "clean fracking" (an oxymoron like a "Safe Fukushima nuke complex" or "kind rape") will allow the Chinese and Indians to substitute fracking sourced methane (and expensive, too, though he forgot (ah, shucks) to say that) for coal. Yeah right - China and India burn mass quantities of coal because it is really cheap to do so, and to hell with the consequences. Besides, not only de-facto slave labor helps sell their crap abroad (exports) but also cheap energy. And in general, fracking sourced gas that is sold at a price greater than the cost to produce it (and not even cleanly, assuming that possibility even exists) is not cheap, so they would tell Muller to go rotate on a flagpole, or something to that effect. But, if they would only go the fracking route...think how much money those who sell fracking equipment, services and gas derived from fracking could make - such as Exxon-Mobil and Koch Industries. And that would make them dizzy with happiness with all that money. Wow, how deluded can a supposedly smart person be....?

Anyway, there is the question of "what are you (and I) going to do about it?" One option, is drink - after all, there is a glut of wine and liquor on world markets, so that economic issue could be addressed. If we all stay drunk enough, who cares about the world's future? Reading too much gloom and doom - such as Bill McKibben's recent Rolling Stone well written and well read article (see http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/global-warmings-terrifying-new-math-20120719) - could do that, not to mention searching for viable solutions in that article. Fixing the CO2 pollution problem means drastic reductions in the burning of coal, oil AND natural gas, for starts, trending to zero "CO2 pollution" (CO2 made by burning fossil fuels), ASAP or sooner. And while that is simple, doing it is most definitely a complicated affair, especially for country's like the US that are severely addicted to fossil fuel usage, even if we do have one of the more awesome wind resources of any country in the world.

But, if you want a rosier scenario, pay attention to that equation's CO2 aspect. If you need energy for stuff (and whether it's air conditioning, heat, transport, communication or entertainment, we all do seem to need energy), use renewable energy. Cut back as much as you can on fossil fuel consumption. Get efficient. Have our governments do the same. And you might need to get politically active, too, as this required effort to keep our planet's climate control system in balance does not work effectively on a volunteer basis. Oh, and try not to support Richard Muller in full corporate "muffin" mode via book sales. Buy Michael Mann's "The Hockey Stick and the Climate Wars" (for example, http://www.amazon.com/The-Hockey-Stick-Climate-Wars/dp/023115254X) instead....or check it out from a library. That's what they are supposed to be for....

DB

Posted by Dave Bradley at 8:56 AM 
