Nightwing and Shiva Now Contemporaries in New 52; You Know What That Means

Well, it seems that unless Cassandra Cain’s entire history has been rewritten the character no longer exists in current DC continuity. A story on the DC blog about Nightwing #14 guesting Lady Shiva, the mother of Cassandra Cain, included this tidbit:

    “In this story, both Dick and Shiva have grown up some since their first encounter—they’re not teenagers anymore—so it’ll be fun to see how each fares in a fair fight. Wait, did I say fair fight? Forget it—Shiva remains by far the better fighter, so it’s up to Dick to find a way just stay alive!”

If Dick and Shiva met as teenagers that means they are the same age - about 21. Which means that Cassandra Cain 1) has not yet been born or is an infant somewhere or 2) no longer exists.

Whichever it means that when DC says you won’t be seeing Cass Cain for awhile, it means you won’t be seeing her for years and years if indeed she does exist.

Toxic. 

Sorry Cass, this time Shiva wins.





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




straightfacedstrangeness added:

    Gaaaaawh. D: …In...case, I demand out-of-main-continuity Elseworlds stories where she (and... 


skalja added:

    Well there goes any motivation I had to start reading DC again. 

mordicaifeed   dcwomenkickingass and added:

    I’LL WAIT FOR YOU CASSANDRA CAIN! 

heavyarmscustom added:

    is shitting all over...again. COLOUR ME SURPRISED. 

theemperorofthenorth added:

    Man, I’m bummed out. 

muchas-smooches said: disgusting. fuck you DC

angrysunbird added:

    Unsurprising bullshit is unsurprising. That will teach Cass a valuable lesson 
  
chaltab added:

    I’m pretty sure Kyle Higgins isn’t this incompetent. ‘They aren’t...anymore’ doesn’t... 

peppers-pray added:

    MOTHRFUCKRS, PLS GO DIAF DC. FUCK THEIR SHIT. SOOO GLAD I NEVER PICKED UP NIGHTWING. 

youcantrewind added:

    Yeah, my Cass-Batgirl suit is definitely being pulled out for C4 this year for sure now. SOLIDARITY. Screw you, DC... 

nevergrowupever said: Wow, am I the only one who feels like DC, be it editorial or writing staff, are just trying to piss off Cass and Steph fans at this point? Because if so they are doing a fantastic job. If this is not their intention, what the hell are they thinking
 
cloudodoodles added:

    :( :(((( :(((((((( 

thehappysorceress added:

    Oh that? That’s...sound of seriously pissed-off fans screaming at 
  
