Postdocs in Genome-Scale Proteomics, Imaging-based Screening and Cancer Biology

By Iddo on August 1st, 2012

 

Three postdocs positions available at a great lab in Denmark. Read on:

 

    We are seeking three Postdoctoral Fellows to The Cellular Signal Integration Group (C-SIG). The group is a network biology research group located at the Department of Systems Biology at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU). Our department represents one of the largest network biology centers in academia and has a highly multi-disciplinary profile.
    
In the lab, we explore biological systems by both generating high-throughput data and developing and deploying algorithms aimed at predicting cell behavior with accuracy similar to that of weather or aircraft models. Our focus is on studying cellular signal processing and decision-making.

    Job description

    The positions are available in the Lindinglab. Prof. Dr. Linding is a world-leading network biologist whose laboratory is interested in the mechanisms by which cells use signaling networks to respond and adapt to changes in their environment. We are seeking highly motivated, bright Researchers to join our highly dynamic, productive and stimulating lab.

    In these positions, the successful applicant will work in a fast-paced dynamic environment, performing large-scale integrative studies to advance research into biological and complex systems in order to develop new understanding of evolution and therapies for human diseases.

    We are seeking experienced and motivated Postdocs to work on projects related to our recent studies on phosphorylation networks and network medicine (Erler & Linding Cell 2012, Bakal, Linding et al. Science 2008, Tan et al. Science 2009, Tan et al. Science2011 and Jørgensen et al. Science 2009 ).

    The projects involve different combinations of RNAi screening, mass-spectrometry, NGS/genomics and large-scale cell culturing to systematically investigate dysregulation of signaling networks in cancer. By combining computational modelling with genomics, quantitative phospho-proteomics and high-throughput imaging we aim to perform global modeling of biological systems and cancer progression.

    Qualifications

    Candidates must hold a PhD degree or equivalent in systems biology, molecular biology or another relevant field, and have experience in cell biology. Experience in large-scale/systems studies is desirable. Experience in mammalian tissue culture, cell imaging, genomics, signal transduction, mass-spectrometry and quantitative proteomics or phospho-proteomics is a distinct advantage.

    The post-holder must be keen to generate, analyze and computationally handle large-scale quantitative data to reach a deeper understanding of biological question at hand.

    Salary and terms of employment

    The appointment will be based on the collective agreement with the Confederation of Professional Associations, and the relevant union negotiates the allowance.
    The period of employment is 2-3 years with the possibility of extension.

    The postdoctoral salary in Denmark is one of the best world-wide and foreign researchers will be able to enter the country on a low tax rate (26%), while remaining fully eligible for all public services of the Danish well-fare society. The candidate will receive a high monthly retirement supplement in addition to the salary.

    DTU offers

    The C-SIG lab is part of the Center for Biological Sequence Analysis (CBS) at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU). CBS represents one of the largest systems- and computational biology centers in academia and has a highly multi-disciplinary profile. DTU strives for academic excellence, collegial respect and freedom tempered by responsibility. DTU is a leading technical university in Europe and ranks with the best universities in the world. We offer a highly attractive training environment and the opportunity to take part in a frontier research program combating cancer.

    Application procedure

    We must have your online application by 20 September 2012. To apply, please open the link “apply online” and fill in the application form and attach your application, CV and diploma. The material that should be given consideration in the assessment must be attached.

    Applications should be submitted in English. Applications and enclosures received after the deadline will not be considered.

    All interested candidates irrespective of age, gender, race, disability, religion or ethnic background are encouraged to apply.

    Further information
 
    Further information may be obtained from Prof. Rune Linding, Phone: +45 2365 1941 or linding@cbs.dtu.dk.

    You can read more about Rune Linding’s Research Group at lindinglab.org.


