
Laura Bassett Become a fan

lbassett@huffingtonpost.com
 
Marsha Blackburn, GOP Congresswoman, Refuses To Acknowledge Romneycare (VIDEO)

Posted: 08/09/2012 9:21 am Updated: 08/09/2012 10:53 am

The morning after Mitt Romney campaign spokeswoman Andrea Saul drew heavy criticism from conservatives for invoking Romneycare as a defense against an attack ad, Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), a co-chair of the Women for Mitt coalition, refused to acknowledge the former governor's health care plan in an interview.

CNN host Brooke Baldwin played Blackburn a clip of Saul's gaffe on Thursday morning, in which the spokeswoman responded to a super PAC attack ad on Romney by pointing out that the steelworker in the ad, who lost his wife to cancer, would have had health insurance if he lived in Massachusetts under Romney's universal health care plan. Conservatives have since lambasted Saul for going off message in bringing up Romneycare, which Democrats often point out is remarkably similar to Obamacare. Conservative CNN contributor Erick Erickson tweeted, "OMG. This might just be the moment Mitt Romney lost the election."

But in response to a direct question about Saul's comment, Blackburn changed the subject. "I didn't hear the full interview, and I haven't seen the tweet," she said. "But I can tell you what I know about the Obamacare plan. I know that it has already doubled in cost."

Blackburn continued to roll out anti-Obamacare talking points as Baldwin tried multiple times to interrupt her and steer the conversation back to Romneycare. "With all due respect, Congresswoman, we're talking about Mitt Romney," Baldwin said. "We're talking about a Mitt Romney spokesperson and specifically asking you to react to her comment. We played the sound bite where she is basically saying had this man gone to Massachusetts where he would have had health care, perhaps this would have prevented his wife's death. This has nothing to do with Obamacare."

"But the point remains that Obamacare is what's on the table," Blackburn responded. "And that is what is going to affect Americans. It is what has increased the cost of insurance for all of our small business employers."


!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS


 Bronxdude 37 minutes ago (12:39 PM)
 From 2000 to 2011, Republican inspired austerity cuts—to the determent of America—have consistently put Koch and Norquist before country. Republican controlled Tennessee cuts millions from public education to offset huge tax cuts for cash-soaked corporations, and thousands of teachers are laid-off, overall graduation rate plummets (of the 95 counties that comprise Tennessee, the high school graduation  Read More... rate is below 50% for 71), US News and World Report declares the state a “perennial dropout factory,” and Marsha Blackburn demands to see Obama’s birth certificate. Republican controlled Alabama cuts millions from public health to offset huge tax cuts for millionaires, rate of infant mortality equals Botswana, neonatal care is worse than Haiti, and Jeff Sessions demands to see Obama’s birth certificate. Republican controlled Mississippi cuts millions from social service programs, total number of children living in abject poverty surpasses 53%, number of extremely low birth weight babies triple, and Thad Cochran questions Obama’s citizenship. Republican controlled Georgia cuts millions from state infrastructure projects to offset tax cuts for millionaires, DOT ranks 672 of Georgia’s 748 bridges as “dangerous,” DOE lists 65% of Georgia’s K-12 schools structurally “substandard,” 2,000 teachers pink-slipped, and Johnny Isakson demands to see Obama’s birth certificate. Republican controlled Louisiana cuts millions from rental assistance program for seniors and disabled children to offset huge tax cuts for oil corporations, thousands of seniors forced to live in squalor, thousands of disabled children are denied daycare assistance, and Bobby Jindal questions Obama’s birth certificate. Republican controlled Texas cuts millions in Medicaid to offset mega tax cuts for oil and natural gas corporations, state ranks 49th in providing healthcare access, thousands die due to treatable illnesses, and Rick Perry demands to see Obama’s birth certificate. For Republicans, collateral damage is an acceptable compromise in order to maintain power, grow government, create wealth, and kowtow to their psychotic Birther base.

 bigmiker73
 4 seconds ago ( 1:16 PM)
 Must Staay.. on message .. must stay *sigh* on message! I don't limbaugh and coulter to skewer me tonight.. must stay on message!

 smok
 6 seconds ago ( 1:16 PM)
 http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=449971328370142&set=a.264248670275743.69392.259536274080316&type=1&theater  

 bernikitty
 single mom of 3, nursing student
 17 seconds ago ( 1:15 PM)
 not surprising.

 everything republicans do and stand for is build on deceit. when they slip up and tell the truth, the house of cards collapses.

 this is true for all republicans: they would much rather climb a tree and stand on their head and tell a lie, than stand on the ground and tell the truth.

 debrislide
 Blue collar US Navy Vet. for Obama.
 23 seconds ago ( 1:15 PM)
 Republicans seem to be so confused. They cannot defend their positions because they have none to speak of. They are always trying to change the conversation. Or they repeat the same statement verbatim.
 GaiasChild
 loves oregon & a green portfolio . . .
 36 seconds ago ( 1:15 PM)
 pants on fire again ! ! ! do these people think the electorate is so stupid and ignorant of civil history? do these people think we are going love being lied to? in what universe are these unpeople in charge?
 ClevelandLib
 Unless
  
  50 seconds ago ( 1:15 PM)
  Because he can't show his taxes..Romney's "successful businessman" rep is toast. Because the Republi-Cons have spent years trashing The ACA which was based on the MA model he implemented, he can't even run on his greatest accomplishment.

  Nobody cares about him 'saving' the Olympics with $1.3 BILLION in federal money...uh oh, that's right....Romney used FEDERAL money to save the Olympics!!! He's a Socialist just like Obama, roflmao! Now ya'll can't even use THAT one!

  This whole campaign is just too delicious for words for a liberal. Just sittin back with my beer and enjoying the Republican self-inflicted implosion. Can someone pass me the pretzels?
  bhseib
  52 seconds ago ( 1:15 PM)
  Marsha blackburn is a good republican. Ignore reality, spew talking points, and hope no one sees the obvious. The bubble is thick.
  Considered political debate is dead in this country.
  retrievals
  TAX CUTS = JOBS = BIG FAT LIE
  1 minute ago ( 1:15 PM)
  so, is every answer to every question going to "Obamacare?"

  Reporter: "Mr. Romney, are you going to release more tax returns?"
  Romney: "Obamacare"

  Reporter: "ok, what is your policy on jobs and economy?"
  Romney: "Obamacare"

  Reporter: "ugh!"
  Romney: "Obamacare"
  enlightened45
  1 minute ago ( 1:15 PM)
  Pawlenty with his coining of Obamneycare during the debates has no chance at the VP slot now....
  sophie M
  ANTI WAR./animal rescue
   
   1 minute ago ( 1:14 PM)
   Is anyone running against her?
   She is so re/pulsive....
   sophie_M: Is anyone running against her? She is so re/pulsive....
   navyveteran
   342 Fans
   1 minute ago ( 1:14 PM)
   I'll bet she doesn't think the Republicans are waging a WAR against Women either.
   navyveteran: I'll bet she doesn't think the Republicans are waging a
   breezy62253
   1 minute ago ( 1:14 PM)
   Blackburn is a good, little Stepford Wife to march in line and do as she's told!! Is she hoping for a new white apron as a reward? What an insult and embarrassment to intelligent women everywhere no matter what your political affiliation might be!


   hippiedad
   My karma ran over your dogma.
   1 minute ago ( 1:14 PM)
   Man, they're just serving it on a silver platter to Obama, aren't they?
   hippiedad: Man, they're just serving it on a silver platter to
   montemalone
   oenophile, aquarist, francophone, radical moderate
   2 minutes ago ( 1:14 PM)
   I thought it was Romneydon'tcare.
   Donald N Plummer
   2 minutes ago ( 1:14 PM)
   Typical GOP windup doll! Push her button by asking a question and you'll get bogus GOP propaganda.

   Be glad they didn't have Blackburn and Bachman on together! The nonsense spouted would shake the world!



