The Best Of Jeanneret: (1) Now Do You Believe? vs. (4) More Cheap Shots Than A Mexican Cantina

by Andy Boron on Aug 9, 2012 9:29 AM EDT


    8 comments
    
The Best of Rick Jeanneret is our summer quest to determine which of Jeanneret's most memorable calls ranks as the greatest of all time by ranking and voting on 16 of the best.

Now Do You Believe?

The 2005-06 Buffalo Sabres were nothing short of a fairytale. A team that, before the lockout, struggled to a ninth place finish and was dead last in the Northeast surged out of the gate to a 110 point, fourth place finish. After besting the Philadelphia Flyers in Round One of the playoffs, the Sabres were up against the No. 1 seeded Ottawa Senators.

Thanks to their speed and scoring depth, the Sabres found themselves in control of the series with a 3-1 lead heading into Game Five in Ottawa. After playing to a 2-2 tie, the Sabres found themselves shorthanded just two minutes into the first overtime. However, in a euphoria-inducing moment, Jason Pominville received a breakout pass and led a furious counterattack that culminated with the rookie Pominville skating right around the mighty Daniel Alfredsson and scoring what would go down as a franchise-defining goal. The resulting Jeanneret call including two classic lines that are ingrained into every Sabres fan's collective consciousness: "Now do you believe? Now do you believe? These guys are good - scary good!" It was the perfect call to capture a moment of destiny, but in a twist that seems to happen more often than not in Buffalo, will also forever be haunted by the memory of what could have been.

More Cheap Shots Than A Mexican Cantina

The 2011 first round playoff series against the Philadelphia Flyers was one of the most exciting in recent memory for Sabres fans. It was full of back-and-forth games, courageous shutouts from Ryan Miller, and plenty of hitting, fighting, and, shall we say, gamesmanship. In Game Four, emotions boiled over amidst each team scoring three goals in the first period.

After plenty of after-the-whistle activities, a fed up Jeanneret exclaimed, "We're not even 13 minutes into this game and there's been more cheap shots than in a Mexican cantina at happy hour!" To which, of course, Harry Neale responded, "You think we can get a couple of those up here?"

Now Do You Believe?

More Cheap Shots Than A Mexican Cantina

After an hour of searching, I couldn't find a video or audio clip of this quote. And there was much sadness.




!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS






Voted for “Believe”.

I think Harry Neale’s response, “You think we can get a couple of those up here?”, is better than RJ’s opener.

.
Good is no longer good enough - Kelvin Sheppard July 9, 2012

by Buffalo for Eternity on Aug 9, 2012 9:38 AM EDT    

Too bad you couldn’t find a link, but this is a no-brainer. Funny call vs franchise-defining moment elevated by another classic Jeanneret line. This was THE moment that I fell back in love with this franchise, after the dismal bankruptcy years soured me on the Sabres. Pominville just took the Sens hearts and stuffed them down their throats while Alfredsson, Emery and Redden just watched. This is a classic moment and a classic call!

"Starting today, the Buffalo Sabres' reason for existence will be to win a Stanley Cup" - Terry Pegula

by willgarr15 on Aug 9, 2012 9:57 AM EDT    
This should be a blow-out, no contest.

The “Now Do You Believe/Scary Good” game was the game that converted me into a full-blown Sabres fan. (I grew up in Albany, so before then my interest in hockey was restricted mostly to the AHL River Rats in their ‘90s glory days). I was sort of watching the playoffs that year without a favorite team, with only some weak attachments to the NJ Devils (snoozefest). Needless to say, that changed from there on out. I haven’t missed a Sabres game broadcast since.

by lassathrax on Aug 9, 2012 11:18 AM EDT    
Now do you believe.

For sure

"A year older? I'm like Benjamin Button, man, I'm going backward"
- Shawne Merriman

by bflo on Aug 9, 2012 11:21 AM EDT via Android app    
I remember watching this live

with my dad, and I don’t think I have ever freaked out more over a sabres goal. I was a senior in highschool and this was the defining moment of what raised my passion and love for the sabres. I will watch this clip every couple of weeks just so I can get that chill running down my spine. This clip and Landon Donovan’s World Cup goal against Algeria have to be the two moments in sports that make my eyes water. Amazing stuff. Hopefully one day, the Sabres will be able to hoist the Stanley Cup and that will become the greatest moment in sports.

by BillsFanSanDiego619 on Aug 9, 2012 11:44 AM EDT    
Off subject

But if any of you get TSN2, Grigorenko is playing in game 1 of the Canada-Russia U20 series on right now.

by Frank Reich Revolution on Aug 9, 2012 12:37 PM EDT    
Watching Game 2 highlights

What a game that was. I miss the playoffs :(

Also loved RJs “Excuse my Ps and Qs but this is just stupid.”

by CaptSkubba on Aug 9, 2012 12:40 PM EDT    

I also miss Leino scoring goals.

by CaptSkubba on Aug 9, 2012 12:42 PM EDT up    

