James Mungro Memorial Award Football Edition: The top names in contention
Posted by Mike on August 8, 2012 

Keep an eye on Wallace Miles on Friday. If he has some game to go with the name, he could take the JMMA wire-to-wire.

Detroit Lions football starts in three days. In four short weeks, Chris Bootcheck will relinquish his James Mungro Memorial Award to some player you’ve literally never heard of.* At least I hope. Actually watching the games is a little more important in football than baseball, and I’m currently on the fence about coughing up $20 to watch four meaningless games.

I’ll save that decision for another day. As of today, it’s happening and we need a watchlist. Unlike with the Tigers, I won’t list all the potential candidates because there’s way too many, and half of them will be cut after week two. I can’t commit to a solid list after a couple minutes of online research only to have them all suck.

A true watch-list of sorts will be available after game one, assuming I see game one. HOWEVA, we can establish some early favorites heading into whatever fake title they always give the Lions vs. Browns preseason game.

Aside from actually contributing to the team, probably the biggest factor in winning the award is having a solid name. Let’s face it, ‘Bootcheck’ separated Bootcheck from the pack early. The Lions have no shortage of name qualifications. All the following 10 players need is an actual game to match their awesome aliases:

R.J. Archer, QB: Debated whether to put him on the list. I may have single-handedly ended his campaign after already profiling him extensively.

Joique Bell, RB: I’m a sucker for small-school guys and this one has a local flavor. Bell graduated from Wayne State in 2010. I’m fairly confident he’s the only player on the list who I share a Facebook friend with. If he wins it all I could have unprecedented access to the James Mungro Memorial Award winner.

Korey Bosworth, LB: I enjoy the ‘K’ more than I should. Plus having the Bosworth name attached to the James Mungro Memorial Award would be fun.

Ugo Chinasa, DE: Enjoyable name but he gets minus points for not even having the best name in the family. His father’s name is Jolly Ibekwoaba.

Edmon McClam, DE: Let the name grow on you. Say it out loud. Every time I read it and say it I like it more and more. He could be a late riser.

Jacques McClendon, G: Great name, but he’s a guard. The James Mungro Memorial Award was not designed for guards.

Carmen Messina, LB: From the name, Carmen Messina sounds like a really hot chick. Instead Messina is an undrafted rookie free agent linebacker out of the University of New Mexico. Either way, the name has a great ring to it.

Wallace Miles, WR:  A lot of people have two first names. Wallace Miles has two last names. Add that with the fact that he’s a small-school guy (North Carolina A&T) and plays a glamour position, and right now, without seeing anyone play a down, Miles is the slight overall favorite.

Slade Norris, LB: Undoubtedly, the greatest name on the list. The only reason he hasn’t been a villain in a James Bond movie? He would win.

J.C. Oram, G: See McClendon, Jacques.

Hey football season, welcome back.

*(The Bi-weekly Bootcheck updates will stay. Maybe. Devastating news coming on Friday.)






