	
Martin Learning Life as a Professional and a Scrapper
On August 9, 2012 · Leave a Comment

By David Roberts

Often times Major League scouts draft young players with the possible intention of teaching them a new position on the field or in the case of pitchers converting them from a starter to reliever or vice versa. Josh Martin, a 2012 Indians draft pick is a perfect example of such.

Martin, a native of Enterprise, Alabama like many kids grew up a multi-sport athlete. “I played baseball and football through high school.” Although there was the one sport that truly called his name. “For as long as I can remember I loved playing, it’s what I’ve always wanted to do.” After finishing high school he went looking for a school he could not only continue to grow as a baseball player but as a student as well. He was able to find that exact fit at a small private school about 2 hours away in Homewood, Alabama, Samford University.

“At Samford I was able to get an academic scholarship and it was one I couldn’t turn down and I took that and asked coach if I could walk on to the team and I was able to walk on there.” During his four years at Samford, he worked as both a starter and reliever. He was actually made a 25th round pick by the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 2011 draft but opted to return for his senior year which was a big year for the right hander. The extra year paid off as the 6’5” 230-pound righty was drafted by the Cleveland Indians in the 10th round of the 2012 draft.

“I was really excited because actually one of my best friends from college, Grant Sides was drafted here last year so he’s up in Carolina now,” Martin said. “The Indians scout Chuck, was a great guy and I really like the system.”

In regards to whether he was drafted with the intention of being a starter or reliever he wasn’t very sure about his intended role. “The scout said they may have had me down on the board as a starter but they really didn’t know because I pitched so many innings during the season. Martin was assigned to Cleveland’s Short Season A affiliate Mahoning Valley Scrappers where he has appeared in nine games on the season, three of those appearances as a starter. He owns a record of 3-1 with a 4.58 ERA over 35.1 innings pitched in which he has struck out 29 and walked 11 on the way to holding opposing hitters to a .237 batting average.

The big right-hander possesses a good pitch arsenal featuring three quality pitches and a fourth in development. “I’m mainly a fastball-curveball guy but I throw changeups here and there, which is kind of a developing pitch for me still figuring things out with it.”

The fourth pitch Martin has been working on has been a bit of an experiment for the youngster. “I started throwing a cutter in the early season here which worked out well for me but its turned more into a slider now just to have something else breaking” Martin said. “That’s a work in progress let me tell you I’ve never thrown a slider in my life before so it’s kind of  hard but it’s coming along.”

Every pitcher has a bread and butter pitch, that one pitch they trust with their gut as their go to pitch. “I know this sounds terrible and my pitching coach might hate me for this but my curveball is probably my best pitch,” Martin said with a laugh. “Most nights when I have a good one is when I have my success.”

Although Martin’s pitching duties have bounced back and forth from coming out of the pen to making a start here and there, he has the right attitude no matter what the job he’s called on to do. “I mean I like starting because when I go out and throw I want to build and throw to 75-100 pitches, figure out all my pitches,” Martin said.”Whereas when you’re relieving you have 20 or 30 pitches, you may not even get to all your pitches if things are working well for you but I mean pitching is pitching I just love it either way.” That kind mentality will no doubt serve the youngster well in his eventual rise through the organization.

The biggest benchmark Martin is looking for in his first professional season is quite simple, to keep putting zeroes up in his pitching line. “I want to try to keep the runs off the board man, that’s what’s really hurting me” Martin said plainly. “I thought I started alright but these last couple innings have been rough and that’s not something you want to do.”

Meanwhile all technical things aside Martin is just trying to continue to adjust to his new lifestyle as a professional baseball player. “Playing every day is the biggest difference for me between college and professional.” The right-hander has seemed to handle the transition pretty well although the ERA may be a bit high, he has shown the ability to dominate the opposing hitters and hopefully it’s a trend he’ll continue to build off of.
