Scouting Report: Will Manny Machado Be The Next Mike Trout?

The Orioles have hung around the AL East/Wild Card race longer than anyone anticipated and now they have decided to go all in.  Last night it was announced that Manny Machado, selected third overall in 2010 and unanimously considered the team’s second best prospect (behind Dylan Bundy), will join the team.  Having drawn comparisons to Alex Rodriguez, those in long-term keeper leagues obviously already have him stashed away (at least they should).  The question is if the rest of the fantasy world should have interest or not.

Playing at Double-A this season Machado was hitting .266 with 11 HR, 59 RBI, 60 R and 13 SB in 402 AB.  Those are solid numbers, especially when you realize there is room for the average to grow.

On the season he has posted a .299 BABIP while also showing a very good eye at the plate (15.4% strikeout rate, 10.3% walk rate).  Yes, the strikeouts are going to increase with the jump to the Majors, but you would also think that he could hit for a much better BABIP as well.

He has also been scorching hot of late, hitting .444 with 3 HR, 7 RBI, 11 R and 1 SB in his past 10 games.  Even if those numbers aren’t impressive enough, he has just 4 K vs. 5 BB over this stretch.

They are solid numbers, but the talent also tells us how much better he could be.  Prior to the season mlb.com ranked Machado as the third best prospect in baseball.  In their midseason Top 50, Baseball America slotted him at #9 (he was #11 in the preseason).  Whichever list you want to look at, the end result is that most think he has a very bright future ahead of him.

Baseball America said prior to the season that:

“Machado has all the tools to be an all-star shortstop. He’s an above-average hitter with a knack for making solid contact, and he has the bat speed and strength to generate average power. He’s a rangy teenager who’s still filling out and getting stronger.”

While he isn’t going to play shortstop in the Majors, at least not yet (he is expected to play third base with J.J. Hardy remaining at short), the rest of the scouting report is what we like to hear.  He showed some of those improvements this season as well.

Splitting time between two levels of Single-A a year ago Machado had 11 HR, 20 doubles and 5 triples in 382 AB.  Taking on tougher competition at Double-A he has matched the home run and triple numbers while adding 26 doubles in 402 AB.

He is not going to be Mike Trout, so those who are thinking that he can be the next 20-year old to dominate the league are going to be mistaken.  He doesn’t have that speed and the power is still developing.  He also has not yet shown the ability to hit for a strong average (.263 since being drafted) and could see a major jump in strikeouts with the move to the Majors (especially since he is skipping Triple-A).

Does he have the potential to be a nice player?  Yes, he does.  He also should be owned in all keeper formats thanks to his long-term potential.  In yearly formats I would consider adding him, especially since he should quickly have eligibility at SS and 3B and has been hot of late, but I wouldn’t look to him as a savior.  He wasn’t expected to reach the Majors for another year and, while the Orioles need to do what they have to in order to make a playoff push, it’s hard to imagine Machado making a major impact in 2012.

In 2013, 2014 and beyond?  That’s a different story, but this year he will likely be a low-end option.

What are your thoughts on Machado?  Do you think he can make an impact in 2012?  Why or why not?





!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS




yummy says:	
August 9, 2012 at 12:04 pm	

Would I own him in a Dynasty League…Yes
Would I pick him up today in standard leagues…No
He is a definite wait a see for this year. I think he gets a good 10 game look at 3B then may moved back down so the O’s can bring up Bundy.

