Thursday Morning Coffee: The five things you need to know this morning.
Total People in Discussion: 0

Good Thursday Morning, Fellow Seekers.

We've been doing some pretty heavy-duty Olympic viewing around Casa de Capitol FIVEIdeas these last few days, so as we head into the final furlong before the weekend, it seemed only appropriate to look backward and see what happened in Olympics past.

Today in 1936, American runner Jesse Owens stuck two fingers up to Adolf Hitler's Nazi regime, winning his fourth gold medal in the 4x100 meter relay in the Munich games. Owens, an African-American, and his team set a new world record of 39.8 seconds, putting a serious dent in those ridiculous Nazi illusions of Aryan superiority.

It's been said that it's often hard to separate politics from the games. That was definitely one of those times when simple human achievement scored a bigger victory than politics ever could.

Here's the rundown of the Top 5 Stories making news this 9th day of August.

1. This will shock you, we know, but the debate over whether Pennsylvania should expand its Medicaid rolls breaks down on sharply partisan lines. The PAIndependent has the story.

House Majority Whip Stan Saylor, R-York, tells the online news org this morning that he plans to introduce legislation that would block the expansion authorized under the federal healthcare act.

“Expanding Medicaid is the wrong course of action and is a disaster in the making. Adding more people to Medicaid is not something we should aspire to nor celebrate,” said Saylor in a memo circulated to House legislators. “It is not the way to address the uninsured population.”

2. State Democrats are trying to get jailed former Rep. Bill DeWeese of Greene County off the fall ballot. They told a state judge yesterday that DeWeese, who's serving time on a public corruption convinction, should be replaced with a candidate who's eligible to serve, the AP reports.
Lawyer Cliff Levine, representing the state party and the three people who sued to remove him, said DeWeese became ineligible after a jury in February found him guilty of five felonies for using state workers and resources to campaign, the AP reported. The state constitution prohibits those convicted of "infamous crimes" from holding public office, and Levine said that DeWeese resigned the day he was sentenced, leaving his seat vacant, the AP reported.

3. The Corbett administration has inked a five-year deal with a central Pennsylvania-based grocery store chain for the naming rights to part of the Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex in Harrisburg.
Weis Markets of Sunbury, Northumberland County, will pay the state $750,000 over the next five years to have its name on the side of the large exposition hall in the sprawling complex on the edge of downtown Harrisburg.
"This is a good example of a public-private partnershipt hat will help us more efficiently," said Nicole Bucher, a spokeswoman for the state Agriculture Department, which oversees the complex. "It's something we've been trying to do for the last five years."
The exhibition hall is perhaps best known as the site of the food court for the annual Pennsyvlania Farm Show, where tens of thousands of people snack on fried vegetables and suck down the show's famous milkshakes each January.

4. Federal authorities charged an Philadelphia chiropractor Wednesday with fraudulently gaining access to thousands of city accident reports through the help of an unnamed Pennsylvania state representative, the Inky reports this morning.
The chiropractor, Ethel C. Harvey, told Department of Records officials she planned to do a study on seat-belt safety and promised not to sell the records, the newspaper reported, citing court filings.

5. Our condolences this morning to Gov. Tom Corbett, First Lady Susan Corbett and their family upon the death of Mrs. Corbett's father, Louis Manbeck, who has died at age 90.
The administration said Mr. Manbeck, a World War II veteran, died at his home in Pine Grove, Schuylkill County on Tuesday. Funeral services are private.

What Goes On (Nakedly Political Edition).
Rep. Matt Gabler, R-Indiana, holds his annual golf outing at Bavarian Hills Golf Club in St. Mary's, Pa., this morning at 11:30 a.m. Admission runs $75 to $1,500.

You Say It's Your Birthday Dept.
Best wishes go out this morning to Capitol newsroom alum Ken Vogel now a reporter for Politico, and to Rob Traynham of Comcast News. Congratulations, fellas.

On The Capitol Ideas iPod This Morning.
Here's one that never fails to get us moving -- and it popped up this morning as we were getting ready for work. It's Dee-Lite and "Groove is in the Heart."

Thursday's Gratuitous Baseball Link.
Sentimental favorites Baltimore swept their three-game series with the visiting Seattle Mariners last night, logging a 9-2 win at Camden Yards. Meanwhile, the Yankees finally got past Detroit, winning 12-8, as Curtis Granderson nearly batted for the cycle.

OK. That's it for now. We'll be back throughout the day with more news and updates. See you in a bit.

