
Man Sentenced to 30 Days for Catching Rain Water on Own Property Enters Jail
by Tammy on August 9, 2012


Obviously outrageous. Federal *and* state governments, and all their minions, are completely out of control.

Via CNS.

    Gary Harrington, the Oregon man convicted of collecting rainwater and snow runoff on his rural property surrendered Wednesday morning to begin serving his 30-day, jail sentence in Medford, Ore.
    “I’m sacrificing my liberty so we can stand up as a country and stand for our liberty,” Harrington told a small crowd of people gathered outside of the Jackson County (Ore.) Jail.

    Several people held signs that showed support for Harrington as he was taken inside the jail.

    Harrington was found guilty two weeks ago of breaking a 1925 law for having, what state water managers called “three illegal reservoirs” on his property. He was convicted of nine misdemeanors, sentenced to 30 days in jail and fined over $1500 for collecting rainwater and snow runoff on his property…Harrington says he is not diverting the state’s water — merely collecting rainwater and snow melt that falls or flows on his own property.

    Harrington has vowed to continue to fight the penalty, stating that the government has become “big bullies” and that “from here on in, I’m going to fight it.”

Here’s audio of the CNS interview with Gary.






!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS






Alain41

I’m interested in what the law says and why. My immediate guess is that the law was probably created to prevent farmers from impounding river & stream water in reservoirs on their property. And when passed, the lawmakers never thought that bureaucratic regulatory agency would use law against someone collecting rainwater. State gov’t might argue, how do we know that it’s just rainwater, we think that he may be pumping groundwater up and capturing it in his reservoirs. (You should be able to inspect to see if this is the case or not.)

I’m also wondering how a jury found him guilty to give him jail time. Might be a case of he doesn’t meet bureaucratic notice, therefore, he was found guilty of not obeying a ‘lawful order’.

Regardless, it is bureaucracy out of control.


Shifra

I caught a snowflake in my mouth last winter. Can I get arrested for this ? :( 
