GM recalling 36,413 Impala police cars over fracturing control arms

By  Jonathon Ramsey
Posted Aug 9th 2012 2:15PM

Just a day after General Motors issued a recall for 1,713 Chevrolet Impala Police Sedans in Canada, it has issued the same recall for 36,413 Impala cruisers in America. The issue concerns the front lower control arms on 2008-2012 model year patrol cars, which can fracture and separate from their mounts.

GM says that no accidents of any kind have been attributed to the problem, but that it will begin sending notices to owners later this month and dealers will replace both front lower control arms. In an email, Chevrolet spokesman Alan Adler informed Autoblog that "There is no recall or any field action on non-police (civilian) Impalas now or in the works." Why is that? According to Adler, "Analysis was done to understand the durability in non-police Impalas and showed the control arms used in the base Impalas will exceed GM Engineering durability requirements."

Scroll down for an official statement from GM with more information. 


 GM Recalls 36,413 Police Vehicles in United States

 DETROIT – General Motors is recalling 36,413 Chevrolet Impala Police Sedans from the 2008-2012 model years sold in the United States to replace the front lower control arms that support the vehicle's wheels. The safety recall does not include non-police Impala models.

 If the front lower control arm fractures and separates from its handling bushing sleeve, sudden changes in vehicle handling and reduced steering control may result, depending on vehicle speed and road surface conditions.

 GM knows of no crashes, injuries or deaths related to the condition. The Impala Police Sedan is sold to municipalities in the United States and Canada.

 Dealers will replace the right-hand and left-hand front lower control arms. GM expects to begin mailing owner letters on Aug. 21, 2012.



!@#$%^&*()  COMMENTS



Phillip

That makes really want to go out and buy a used Impala......NOT I thought I read somewhere that they had a problem with the rear suspension and said they didn't have to fix it because that GMC was dissolved...flip flop flip
14 minutes ago
Ducman69

So the big question here is if the base Impala actually uses different control-arms than the police version (highly unlikely), or if Government Motors is just shafting the civilian market because there are a lot more of them and they hope that the civilian vehicles will not see as many miles or as harsh conditions as the police vehicles do and aren't likely to fail while still under warranty (much more likely).

Good reason not to buy another GM (and I'm driving two Chevy's right now).
26 minutes ago +1
Laser

Oh my - Government Motors is honoring a GM product via recall...

Wonder why?

Because it just introduced a new fleet car that it wants to sell to police and it needs the business. Can't afford to alienate the police departments!

Meanwhile the other Impalas on the market ... "don't worry, they meet the high Government Motors durability standards we set for civilian use applications". In other words, "up yours!"
51 minutes ago

Duncan1800

Perhaps not everything GM does is some calculated move, and they're just doing the right thing.

Troll.
27 minutes ago
James Joseph Houk

Or could it just be good customer service. They know that if they do not do the right thing they will lose the customer. I'm pretty sure 2008 to 2011 falls under the new GM's responsibilities.
1 hour ago
Big Squid

I thought the new GM was not liable for old GM products. There was a GM shill on autoblog saying so not too long ago.
1 hour ago
EJD1984

Maybe this is Chevrolet's way of talking them into replacing the Impala with a Caprice.
1 hour ago 
