Vegas Express Jet Introduces Wine Tour Packages to Paso Robles and Santa Barbara
2012-08-09 02:20:33 (GMT) (Caymanmama.com - Press Release Travel News)


VEGAS EXPRESS JET INTRODUCES A “ NEW FAST LANE” TO THE CENTRAL CALIFORNIA COAST WINERIES FROM LAS VEGAS. Las Vegas travelers will be able to schedule their very own Private Charter flights to the Central California Coast Wineries. This at very “affordable prices”

Las Vegas travelers will be able to charter the Seneca II operated by Air2Air for 4-5 passengers to any destination in California, Utah and Arizona. Charter rates are up to 40% below charter costs for a light private jet. A full day Seneca II Charter with winery tour visits by luxury limousines is offered at $6,895- for four persons. The short journey from Las Vegas to Paso Robles is only one hour and 48 minutes.

Passengers will depart from the convenient Henderson Executive Terminal only minutes 15-20 freeway minutes from the Strip Corridor. Air2Air will be soon on board as a home based operator at the Henderson Executive Airport (KHEND) to serve the business and leisure flyers from the Las Vegas Valley.

For Las Vegas Visitors the California wineries are much closer- Vegas Express now offers a “Day Wine Journey” to Paso Roble, Templeton and Santa Barbara. One of the package options includes the flight to Paso Robles from Las Vegas and a return from Santa Barbara. During the California stay the visitors receive a VIP welcome at the Wineries. Local transportation includes a Luxury Lincoln Town Car.

A special tour of the winery and caves at Eberly is included followed by a picnic lunch. A second visit is scheduled at the Wild Horse winery in Templeton.

The scene will change during the afternoon with breathtaking vistas and ocean views during a relaxing drive on highway 101-1 to Santa Barbara. The Fess Parker winery & vineyard will be the location of a wine tasting. Fess Parker is family owned and operated producing ultra premium wines including Syrah, Viognier, Pinot Noir, Chardonnay and White Riesling wine. The journey will conclude with a visit to the old city of Santa Barbara and the airport for your 1 hour 35 minute flight to Las Vegas.

All packages may be combined with a one or two night stay at an additional charge. Please ask for a “custom crafted” business or vacation package with detailed charter costs. Please call our Jet Concierge at 702-458-5191 or e-mail at info@vegasexpressjet.com . Vegas Express Jet provides you with FREE quotes for all aircraft types and World Wide Services. All aircraft are provided by Authorized FAA Part 135 operators.

For additional information on Charter Flights and Wine Tours please contact:

Han Geskes, Vegas Express Jet by Royalty- 702-285-8153 Han@vegasexp 
